Conference Proceedings
Toronto, Canada I April 26 – May 1, 2014

The 32nd Annual ACM Conference on
Human Factors in Computing Systems

CHI 2014 Compilation Author Index

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/starthere.htm

Main Page

Organizers, Chairs'
Messages, & Reviewers

Proceedings:
Paper Sessions

Extended Abstracts

Best of CHI Awards

TOCHI Presentations

Compilation Author Index

Sponsors & Supporters

ACM SIGCHI Membership

Welcome to the Electronic Compilation of the CHI 2014
Proceedings and Extended Abstracts

These proceedings are a cross-platform medium that allows Windows and Mac users to share the same
directory structure and access a common set of files. To navigate these proceedings, a graphical web
browser is required. The full-text content on this disk is in Adobe PDF format. A version of Adobe Acrobat
Reader is required to view the content. Please be sure you have the latest version and updates of Adobe
Acrobat Reader installed.

Copyright © 2014 by the Association for Computing Machinery, Inc. (ACM). Permission to make digital or
hard copies of portions of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies
are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full
citation on the first page. Copyright for components of this work owned by others than ACM must be honored.
Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, to republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to
lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permission to republish from:
permissions@acm.org or contact the Publications Dept., ACM, Inc. Fax +1 (212) 869-0481.

For other copying of articles that carry a code at the bottom of the first or last page, copying is permitted
provided that the per-copy fee indicated in the code is paid through the Copyright Clearance Center, 222
Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923 (USA).

Notice to Past Authors of ACM-Published Articles

ACM intends to create a complete electronic archive of all articles and/or other material previously
published by ACM. If you have written a work that has been previously published by ACM in any journal or
conference proceedings prior to 1978, or any SIG Newsletter at any time, and you do NOT want this work to
appear in the ACM Digital Library, please inform permissions@acm.org, stating the title of the work, the
author(s), and where and when published.

Proceedings ISBN: 978-1-4503-2473-1

Extended Abstracts ISBN: 978-1-4503-2474-8

(Return to Top)

Additional copies may be ordered prepaid from:
ACM Order Department
General Post Office
P.O. Box 30777
New York, NY 10087-0777

Phone: 1-800-342-6626 (USA & Canada)
+1-212-626-0500 (Global)
Fax: +1-212-944-1318
E-mail: acmhelp@acm.org
Hours: 8:30 am – 4:30 pm ET

1 of 1

4/21/2014 7:35 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Conference & Technical Program Chairs' Welcome

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/w...

Main Page

Organizers, Chairs'
Messages, & Reviewers

Proceedings:
Paper Sessions

Extended Abstracts

Best of CHI Awards

TOCHI Presentations

Compilation Author Index

Sponsors & Supporters

ACM SIGCHI Membership

(Return to Top)

Welcome to CHI 2014!

CHI is more than a conference, it is an international community of researchers and practitioners who want to
make a difference. Everything we do is focused on uncovering, critiquing and celebrating radically new
ways for people and technology to evolve together. People in their everyday contexts, in diverse regions of
the world, from very different backgrounds, with alternative outlooks on life drive this innovation. As you
take part in the conference sessions we really hope you will experience how powerful this people-centred
approach to technological transformation can be. CHI as a conference is now in its 32nd year and has grown
to become the premier international forum on human-computer interaction, gathering us all to share
innovative interactive insights that shape people's lives. CHI draws together a multidisciplinary community
from around the globe.

Our great strength is our ability to bring together students and experts, researchers and practitioners,
scientists, designers and engineers, drawing from their rich perspectives to create new visions of human-
computer interaction. This year's conference theme is One of a CHInd. We chose this nearly two years ago as
we began planning for this event. It has helped us focus our efforts and we hope you will use it to keep your
eyes open to the bigger picture amongst all the excitement, range of presentations and activities at the
conference.

CHI 2014 is One of CHInd because it is a celebration of the conference's one of a kind diversity; from the
broad range of backgrounds of its attendees, to the diverse spectrum of communities and fields that the
conference and its research have an impact on. CHI 2014 will take place at the Metro Toronto Convention
Centre in Toronto, Canada, a city itself known for its one of a kind cultural diversity. But, CHI 2014 is more
than a celebration of the diversity of our community and conference setting.

We hope that this year's event, more than anything, reminds you that the "people," "participants," "users" or
"humans" that you hear described throughout this week are actually uniquely wonderful individuals full of
hopes, concerns, joys and frustrations. CHI is here to serve all of these one of a kinds.

CHI 2014 features two outstanding keynote speakers:
Booker prize winning author, Margaret Atwood and leading UX designer, Scott Jenson.

New for CHI 2014, we have Provoke! Wisdom! Impact! plenary talks first thing each morning on Tuesday,
Wednesday and Thursday. Come along, join the crowd and be energised by our speakers who will each bring
in their experience of the Big Picture to inspire us. The talks will be short - twenty minutes - and then the rest
of the day's programme will begin.

We are also delighted to host a timely retrospective exhibition on wearable technology curated by Thad
Starner and Clint Zeagler. CHI 2014 also includes two days of focused workshops and four days of technical
content, including CHI's prestigious technical program, with 16 parallel sessions of rigorously reviewed
research Papers, engaging Panels, Case Studies and Special Interest Groups (SIGs), an extensive Course
program and invited talks from SIGCHI's award winners: Steve Whittaker, Gillian Grampton Smith and
Richard Ladner.

We also host student research, design, and game competitions, provocative alt.chi presentations and
last-minute SIGs for discussing current topics. Interactivity hands-on demonstrations showcase the best of
interactive technology. We also highlight over 241 Work-In-Progress posters: this year we have added some
features to these sessions to better help you get the most out of the exciting, early stage work on show; do go

1 of 2

4/21/2014 7:36 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Conference & Technical Program Chairs' Welcome

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/w...

along and engage with the authors about their work. Evening events include the CHI 2014 conference
reception, Sponsors and University events, local performances and the Job Fair.

We received over 3200 submissions and accepted nearly 1000 that will appear in the ACM Digital Library.
To help you navigate through this immense program, there are a number of online and digital resources from
the conference website to our mobile apps. You can also browse the videos, papers and extended abstracts
on the CHI 2014 USB Key. But, CHI 2014 is about being in Toronto so perhaps the best way to select from
and experience the event is by asking for pointers and chatting with your fellow attendees, our wonderful
student volunteers, the information desk helpers or any of this year's committee.

We are all here to make your experience as useful and enjoyable as possible. We are deeply indebted to our
vast number of volunteers, without whom CHI 2014 would not be possible, including over 3800 reviewers,
over 180 senior members of the program committee, nearly 100 members of the CHI 2014 conference
committee and, of course, the more than 180 student volunteers. We thank you all! We are honored and
excited by the opportunity to host CHI 2014 and wish you a productive and enjoyable stay in Toronto!

Matt Jones
Swansea University, Wales,
UK
CHI 2014 General Conference
Co-Chair

Albrecht Schmidt
University of Stuttgart,
Germany
CHI 2014 Technical Program
Co-Chair

(Return to Top)

Philippe Palanque
Université Paul Sabatier
CHI 2014 General Conference
Co-Chair

Tovi Grossman
Autodesk Research, Canada
CHI 2014 Technical Program
Co-Chair

2 of 2

4/21/2014 7:36 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- From ACM SIGCHI's President and Vice Presid...

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/w...

Main Page

Organizers, Chairs'
Messages, & Reviewers

Proceedings:
Paper Sessions

Extended Abstracts

Best of CHI Awards

TOCHI Presentations

Compilation Author Index

Sponsors & Supporters

ACM SIGCHI Membership

(Return to Top)

From ACM SIGCHI's President and Vice President for
Conferences

SIGCHI is proud to sponsor the premier annual conference in the field of human-computer interaction. We
are extremely grateful to the CHI 2014 Conference Chairs Matt Jones and Philippe Palanque , to Technical
Program Chairs Albrecht Schmidt and Tovi Grossman, and to their wonderful crew, who succeeded to build
an impressive program and experience.

CHI 2014 is back in Toronto, Canada, returning to the same location of CHI 1987, 5 years after the first
conference, on Human Factors in Computer Systems, in Gaithersburg, MD, March 1982. That first
conference in Gaithersburg drew over 900 attendees, and since then CHI, with the official name: "ACM
Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems", has continued to grow and broaden its range of topics
and contributing disciplines: the founding psychologists and software engineers began to meet new visions
from ethnography, sociology, communication sciences and arts, among others. Relevant industries, as well as
research institutes and academia, showed an increasing - and often long-lasting - interest and involvement
(through volunteers and through sponsorship for conference expenses).

CHI is an ideal forum for people to meet formally as well as informally, to exchange knowledge and views,
to share experiences, and to learn. The CHI conference brings together professionals from research and
practice; people from industry, academia, and from government; long-term veterans of HCI, young
professionals and students; all in an environment designed to encourage interaction. We invite you to actively
participate in that interaction: introduce yourself to people, interact with presenters and speakers, renew old
friendships and make new ones.

CHI is organized on behalf of ACM's Special Interest Group on Computer-Human Interaction (SIGCHI), an
international community of professionals who share an interest in the many diverse facets of HCI. SIGCHI is
committed both to advancing the field of HCI, to facilitate exchange of information within the SIGCHI
community, and to support students to enter the domain.

The CHI conference is arguably the single most visible activity of SIGCHI, but we also sponsor and support
a wide range of specialized conferences and workshops in areas ranging from interactive systems design to
user interface technology to computer-supported cooperative work to "intelligent" user interfaces. Visit the
SIGCHI website at http://www.sigchi.org to find our conference schedule, listing upcoming as well as past
conferences.

SIGCHI and ACM produce some of the most respected publications in the field. All members receive
interactions, a highly-acclaimed magazine covering the broad field of HCI and user interface design. ACM
Transactions on Computer-Human Interactions (ToCHI), now in its 21st year, is our flagship journal - a
quarterly publication with the top-quality archival research aimed at researchers and those translating
research into practice.

SIGCHI is truly an international organization, with over 30 local chapters and 3 student chapters in 25
countries on 6 continents. We encourage all SIGCHI members to join their local chapter - or if there isn't one
in your area, we would love to help you create one. And don't forget virtual communities! SIGCHI hosts
dozens of electronic mailing lists on topics ranging from HCI and the Web, to HCI educations, to public
policy and beyond. Those lists range from dozens of subscribers to thousands, and are an excellent way to
keep up with the field and with friends and colleagues.

1 of 2

4/21/2014 7:37 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- From ACM SIGCHI's President and Vice Presid...

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/w...

Finally, on behalf of ACM SGICHI, we again want to thank the conference committee and all of the hundreds
of volunteers who make this conference possible. Their work makes this a rewarding experience for all of
us.

(Return to Top)

Gerrit C. van der Veer
SIGCHI President

John "Scooter" Morris
SIGCHI Vice-President for Conferences

2 of 2

4/21/2014 7:37 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- CHI 2014 Papers and Notes Chairs' Welcom

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/w...

Main Page

Organizers, Chairs'
Messages, & Reviewers

Proceedings:
Paper Sessions

Extended Abstracts

Best of CHI Awards

TOCHI Presentations

Compilation Author Index

Sponsors & Supporters

ACM SIGCHI Membership

CHI 2014 Papers and Notes Chairs' Welcome

The CHI Papers and Notes programme is continuing to grow and this year we received more than 2000
submissions for the first time. We are pleased that CHI is still the leading conference for research in human-
computer interaction.

CHI 2014 continued the use of subcommittees to manage the review process. Authors selected the
subcommittee they believed was best qualified to review their work: Due to the changing pattern of
submissions we split some subcommittees into more manageable sizes and coalesced others. We are pleased
with the subcommittee process: By dividing the work, each paper received much more careful discussion
than would otherwise have been possible.

This year we considered 2036 submissions, including 1428 papers and 608 notes, representing a 4% growth
over last year. We accepted 465 submissions (23%): 382 papers and 83 notes.

The CHI review process demands a tremendous amount of work from all areas of the human-computer
interaction community. As co-chairs of the process, we are amazed at the ability of the community to organize
itself to accomplish this task. We would like to thank the 2866 individual reviewers for their careful
consideration of these papers. We also deeply appreciate the huge amount of time donated to this process by
the 205-member program committee, who paid their own way to attend the face-to-face program committee
meeting, an event larger than the average ACM conference.

We are proud of the work of the CHI 2014 program committee and hope that you enjoy these papers and
notes, which represent the best research in human-computer interaction.

(Return to Top)

Stephen Brewster, Glasgow University
Andy Cockburn, University of Canterbury
CHI 2014 Papers and Notes Chairs

1 of 1

4/21/2014 7:38 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Organization

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/or...

Main Page

Organizers, Chairs'
Messages, & Reviewers

Proceedings:
Paper Sessions

Extended Abstracts

Best of CHI Awards

CHI 2014 Conference Organization

Technical Program

Spotlights

Operations

General Conference Co-Chairs
Matt Jones, Swansea University, Wales, UK
Philippe Palanque, Université Paul Sabatier, France

TOCHI Presentations

Technical Program

Compilation Author Index

Sponsors & Supporters

ACM SIGCHI Membership

Technical Program Co-Chairs
Albrecht Schmidt, University of Stuttgart , Germany
Tovi Grossman, Autodesk Research, Canada

Technical Program Chair Assistant
Michael Glueck, Autodesk Research, Canada

Papers and Notes
Stephen Brewster, University of Glasgow, UK
Andy Cockburn, University of Canterbrury, New Zealand

Panels
Gillian Hayes, University of California, Irvine, USA
Khai Truong, University of Toronto, Canada

Case Studies
Jonathan Arnowitz, Google, USA
DJ Hoets, SAP, USA
Michael Arent, Rivendel Consulting, USA
KAIST, Republic of Korea in Henderson, Flipside, The Netherlands

Courses
Regina Bernhaupt, Ruwido, France
Elizabeth Churchill, eBay Research Labs, USA

Interactivity
Steven Benford, University of Nottingham, UK
Julie Rico Williamson, University of Glasgow, Scotland, UK

Video Showcase
Jinwook Seo, Seoul National University, Korea

(Return to Top)

1 of 4

4/21/2014 7:39 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Organization

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/or...

Nicolas Roussel, INRIA, France

SIGs
Enrico Rukzio, Ulm University, Germany
Henry Duh, University of Tasmania, Australia

Doctoral Consortium
Manfred Tscheligi, University of Salzburg, Austria
Katherine Isbister, New York University, USA

Workshops
Nadir Weibel, University of California, San Diego, USA
Juergen Steimle, Max Planck Institute, Germany

Works in Progress
Shelly Farnham, Microsoft, USA
Shamsi Iqbal, Microsoft, USA
Shaun Lawson, University of Lincoln, USA

Student Research Competition
Celine Latulipe, UNC Charlotte, USA
Floyd Muller, University in Melbourne, Australia

Student Design Competition
Thecla Schiphorst, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Youn-Kyung Lim, KAIST, Korea

Student Game Competition
Seth Cooper, University of Washington, USA
Alessandro Canossa, Northeastern University, USA

alt.chi
Daniela Rosner, University of Washington, USA
Lilly Irani, UC San Diego, USA

TOCHI Papers
Jeffrey Nichols, IBM Research, USA

(Return to Top)

Best of CHI Awards
Daniel Wigdor, University of Toronto, Canada
Karyn Moffatt, McGill School of Information, Canada

Spotlights

Spotlights Chairs
Kristina Höök, Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden
Ed Chi, Google Research, USA

Games & Entertainment
Magy Seif El-Nasr, Northeastern University, USA
Heather Desurvire, Behavioristics, Inc, USA
Lennart Nacke, University of Ontario, Canada

HCI For Development (HCI4D)
Melissa Densmore, Microsoft Research, USA
Matthew Kam, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Ban Al-Ani, University of California, Irvine, USA

Interaction Science

(Return to Top)

2 of 4

4/21/2014 7:39 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Organization

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/or...

Andrew Howes, University of Birmingham, UK
Benjamin R. Cowan, University of Birmingham, UK
Stephen J. Payne, University of Oxford, UK
Paul Cairns, University of York, UK
Christian P. Janssen, The Smith-Kettlewell Eye Research Institute, USA
Anna L Cox, University College London, UK
Anthony J. Hornof, University of Oregon, USA
Peter Pirolli, Palo Alto Research Center (PARC), USA

Making Cultures
Jeffrey Bardzell, University Bloomington, USA
Shaowen Bardzell, Shaowen Bardzell, USA
Carl DiSalvo, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Ann Light, Northumbria University, UK
Daniela Rosner, University of Washington, USA

Art and Interaction
David England, John Moores University, UK
Joceyn Spence, University of Surrey, UK

Operations

Student Volunteer Coordinators
Lindsay Reynolds, Cornell University, USA
Jon Haber, University of Calgary, Canada

Technology Liaisons
Scooter Morris, University of California, San Francisco, USA
Sara Drenner, University of Minnesota-Twin Cities, USA

Webmaster
Liam Betsworth, Swansea University, Wales, UK

Social Media
Max Wilson, Nottingham University, UK
Katie Panciera, University of Minnesota, USA

Proceedings
Marco Winckler, Université Paul Sabatier, France
Yann Riche, Microsoft, USA
Stéphane Conversy, ENAC, France

Infrastructure Accessibility Chair
Jennifer Rode, Drexel University, USA

(Return to Top)

Digital Accessibility Chair
Jonathan Lazar, Towson University, USA

Community Sourcing & Scheduling
Paul André, Facebook, USA
Anant Bhardwaj, MIT, USA
Lydia Chilton, University of Washington, USA
Juho Kim, MIT, USA
Steven Dow, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Rob Miller, MIT, USA
Haoqi Zhang, Northwestern University, USA

Mobile Apps

3 of 4

4/21/2014 7:39 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Organization

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/or...

Stephen Oney, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Eiji Hayashi, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Jason Wiese, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Célia Martinie, Université Paul Sabatier, France

Video Previews
Gene Golovchinsky [in memory]
Gonzalo Ramos, University of Toronto, Canada
Fanny Chevalier, INRIA, France

Conference Management
Janeé Pelletier, Conference & Logistics Consultants, USA
Allison Perrelli, Conference & Logistics Consultants, USA

Sponsors, Exhibits & Recruitment
Carol Klyver, Foundations of Excellence, USA

Registration
Yvonne Lopez, Executive Events, Inc. USA
Brooke Daley, Executive Events, Inc. USA

(Return to Top)

PCS Liaisons
Max van Kleek, University of Southampton, UK
Carol Klyver, Foundations of Excellence, USA
Scooter Morris, University of California, San Francisco, USA

Women's Breakfast Event
Allison Druin, University of Maryland, USA

4 of 4

4/21/2014 7:39 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Sub-Committee and Associate Chairs file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Main Page

Organizers, Chairs'
Messages, & Reviewers

Proceedings:
Paper Sessions

Extended Abstracts

Best of CHI Awards

TOCHI Presentations

Compilation Author Index

Sponsors & Supporters

ACM SIGCHI Membership

(Return to Top)

CHI 2014 Papers and Notes Subcommittee & Associate Chairs

The CHI 2014 Conference & Program chairs and organizers wish to express their gratitude to all the
following who contributed to providing the quality presentations for this year's conference.

Subcommittee Chairs

Associate Chairs

Reviewers

Subcommittee Chairs
Mark Ackerman, University of Michigan, USA
Victoria Bellotti, Xerox PARC, USA
Laura Dabbish, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Stephen Fairclough, Liverpool John Moores University, UK
Steven Feiner, Columbia University, USA
Jon Froelich, University of Maryland, USA
Vicki Hanson, IBM Research, USA
Jettie Hoonhout, Philips Research, The Netherlands
Hilary Hutchinson, Google Research, USA
Shahram Izadi, Microsoft Research, UK
David Kirk, Newcastle University, UK
Antonio Krueger, DFKI, Germany
Myriam Lewkowicz, Université de Technologie de Troyes, France
Youn-Kyung Lim, KAIST, South Korea
Joanna McGrenere, University of British Columbia, Canada
Bilge Mutlu, University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA
Fabio Paterno, CNR ISTI, Italy
Wanda Pratt, University of Washington, USA
mc schraefel, University of Southampton, UK
Sriram Subramanian, University of Bristol, UK
Bill Thies, Microsoft Research, India
Manfred Tscheligi, CURE, Austria
Ron Wakkary, Simon Fraser University, Canada
John Zimmerman, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Associate Chairs

(Return to Top)

A
J

S

B
K

T

C
L

U

D
M

V

E
N

W

F
O

X

G
P

Y

H
Q

Z

I
R

1 of 5

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Sub-Committee and Associate Chairs file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Eytan Adar, University of Michigan, USA
Jason Alexander, Lancaster University, UK
Paul André, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Judd Antin, Yahoo! Research, USA
Alissa Antle, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Paul Aoki, Intel Labs, USA
Daniel Ashbrook, Nokia Research Center Hollywood, USA
Gabriela Avram, University of Limerick, Ireland
Brian Bailey, University of Illinois, USA
Lynne Baillie, Glasgow Caledonian University, UK
Ravin Balakrishnan, University of Toronto, Canada
Jeffrey Bardzell, Indiana University Bloomington, USA
Richard Beckwith, Intel Research, USA
Hrvoje Benko, Microsoft Research, USA
Timothy Bickmore, Northeastern University, USA
Jeffrey Bigham, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Mark Blythe, Northumbria University, UK
Alexander Boden, University of Siegen, Germany
Sebastian Boring, University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Duncan Brumby, University College London, UK
A.j. Brush, Microsoft Research, USA
Andreas Bulling, Max-Planck Institut Für Informatik, Germany
Daniela Busse, Samsung Research America (SRA), USA
Andreas Butz, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Germany
John Canny, UC Berkley, USA
Xiang Cao, Lenovo Research & Technology, China
Erin Carroll, University of Rochester, USA
Nicholas Chen, University of Maryland, UK
Yunan Chen, University of California, USA
Coye Cheshire, UC Berkeley, USA
Fanny Chevalier, University of Toronto, Canada
Keith Cheverst, Lancaster University, England, UK
Luigina Ciolfi, Sheffield Hallam University, UK
Rob Comber, Newcastle University, UK
Lorrie Cranor, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Scott Davidoff, Jet Propulsion Laboratory, USA
Antonella de Angeli, University of Trento, Italy
Alexander de Luca, University of Munich, Germany
Rogerio de Paula, IBM Research, Brazil
Marco de Sá, Facebook, USA
Morgan Dixon, University of Washington, USA
Steven Dow, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Pierre Dragicevic, INRIA, France
Mark Dunlop, University of Strathclyde, Scotland, UK
Darren Edge, Microsoft Research Asia, China
Serge Egelman, University of California, USA
Niklas Elmqvist, Purdue University, USA
Ylva Fernaeus, KTH, Sweden
Clifton Forlines, Draper Laboratory, USA
Jodi Forlizzi, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Zhiyong Fu, Information Art and Design Department, China
Dominic Furniss, University College London, UK
Susan Fussell, Cornell University, USA

2 of 5

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Sub-Committee and Associate Chairs file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Krzysztof Gajos, Harvard University, USA
Luciano Gamberini, University of Padova, Italy
David Geerts, KU Leuven, Belgium
Darren Gergle, Northwestern University, USA
Jennifer Golbeck, University of Maryland, USA
Judith Good, University of Sussex, UK
Ning Gu, Fudan University, China
Tiago Guerreiro, University of Lisbon, Portugal
Mona Leigh Guha, University of Maryland, USA
Carl Gutwin, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Mark Hancock, University of Waterloo, Canada
Beverly Harrison, Yahoo! Labs, USA
Steve Harrison, Virginia Tech, USA
Mike Hazas, Lancaster University, UK
Otmar Hilliges, ETH Zurich, Switzerland
Eve Hoggan, Aalto University, Finland
Jonathan Hook, Newcastle University, UK
Kasper Hornbæk, University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Eva Hornecker, Bauhaus Universität Weimar, Germany
Gary Hsieh, University of Washington, USA
Elaine Huang, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Jina Huh, Information Studies, USA
Faustina Hwang, The University of Reading, UK
Kori Inkpen, Microsoft Research, USA
Lilly Irani, University of California, USA
Pourang Irani, University of Manitoba, Canada
Petra Isenberg, INRIA, France
Michal Jacovi, IBM Research Lab In Haifa, Israel
Giulio Jacucci, Aalto University, Finland
Wendy Ju, California College of the Arts, USA
Evangelos Karapanos, Madeira Interactive Technologies Institute, Portugal
Abhijit Karnik, University of Bristol, UK
Judy Kay, University of Sydney, Australia
Patrick Gage Kelley, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Aisling Kelliher, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Julie Kientz, University of Washington, USA
David Kim, Newcastle University, UK
Jesper Kjeldskov, Aalborg University, Denmark
Predrag Klasnja, University of Michigan, USA
Per Ola Kristensson, University of St Andrews, UK
Effie Law, ETH Zurich, UK
Christopher Le Dantec, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Joonhwan Lee, Seoul National University, South Korea
Yang Li, Google Research, USA
Silvia Lindtner, University of California, USA
Kris Luyten, Hasselt University - Tul - Iminds, Belgium
Kent Lyons, Yahoo, USA
Nicolai Marquardt, University College London, UK
Paul Marshall, University College London, UK
Michael Massimi, Microsoft Research, UK
Marilyn Mcgee-Lennon, University of Glasgow, UK
David Mcgookin, Heriot-Watt University, Scotland, UK
Helena Mentis, University of Maryland, USA
Natasa Milic-Frayling, Microsoft Research Ltd, UK
Robert Miller, The Pennsylvania State University, USA

3 of 5

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Sub-Committee and Associate Chairs file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Karyn Moffatt, McGill University, Canada
Tom Moher, University of Illinois at Chicago, USA
Wendy Moncur, University of Dundee, Scotland,
Dan Morris, Microsoft Research, USA
Tomer Moscovich, INRIA, France
Ingrid Mulder, Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands
Michael Muller, Alexander Von Humboldt Institute for Internet and Society, USA
Jörg Müller, University of Arts, Berlin, Germany
Sean Munson, University of Washington, USA
Lennart Nacke, University of Ontario Institute of Technology, Canada
Michael Nebeling, ETH Zurich, Switzerland
Carman Neustaedter, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Jeffrey Nichols, IBM Research, USA
Ian Oakley, Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology, South Korea
Marianna Obrist, Newcastle University, UK
William Odom, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Amy Ogan, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University, UK
Alex Olwal, Royal Institute of Technology (KTH), USA
Claire O'malley, University of Nottingham, UK
Antti Oulasvirta, Max-Planck Institut Für Informatik, Germany
Andrea Parker, Northeastern University, USA
Sameer Patil, Aalto University, Finland
Mark Perry, Brunel University, UK
Christopher Power, University of York, UK
Aaron Quigley, University of St. Andrews, UK
Chris Quintana, University of Michigan, USA
Emilee Rader, Michigan State University, USA
David Randall, University of Siegen, UK
Pei-Luen Patrick Rau, Tsinghua University, China
Stuart Reeves, University of Nottingham, England
Katharina Reinecke, Harvard University, USA
Anne Roudaut, University of Bristol, Germany
Mark Rouncefield, Lancaster University, UK
Daniel Russell, Google, USA
Nithya Sambasivan, University of California, USA
Corina Sas, Lancaster University, UK
Martina Angela Sasse, University College London (UCL), UK
Christina Satchell, The University of Melbourne, Australia
James Scott, Microsoft Research, UK
Andrew Sears, Rochester Institute of Technology, USA
Abigail Sellen, Microsoft Research, UK
N. Sadat Shami, IBM Research, USA
Rajinder Sodhi, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA
Erin Solovey, Drexel University, USA
Danae Stanton Fraser, University of Bath, UK
Jürgen Steimle, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Wolfgang Stuerzlinger, York University, Canada
Hironobu Takagi, IBM Research, Japan
Yuichiro Takeuchi, Sony Computer Science Laboratories, Japan
Deborah Tatar, Virginia Tech,
Jaime Teevan, Microsoft Research, USA
John Thomas, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Melanie Tory, University of Victoria, Canada
Zachary Toups, New Mexico State University, USA

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

4 of 5

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Sub-Committee and Associate Chairs file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Elise Van Den Hoven, University of Technology Sydney, Australia
John Vines, Newcastle University, UK
Daniel Vogel, University of Waterloo, Canada
Amy Voida, Indiana University, USA
Annalu Waller, University of Dundee, Scotland, UK
Hao-Chuan Wang, National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan
Nadir Weibel, University of California San Diego, USA
Daniel Wigdor, University of Toronto, Canada
Lauren Wilcox, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Maria Wolters, University of Edinburgh, UK
Volker Wulf, University of Siegen and Fraunhofer FIT, Germany
Sarita Yardi Schoenebeck, University of Michigan, USA
Svetlana Yarosh, AT&T Research Labs, USA
Thorsten Zander, TU Berlin, Germany
Shengdong Zhao, National University of Singapore, Singapore
Michelle Zhou, IBM Research - Almaden, USA
Xiaomu Zhou, Rutgers University, USA

(Return to Top)

5 of 5

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Main Page

Organizers, Chairs'
Messages, & Reviewers

Proceedings:
Paper Sessions

Extended Abstracts

Best of CHI Awards

TOCHI Presentations

Compilation Author Index

Sponsors & Supporters

ACM SIGCHI Membership

(Return to Top)

CHI 2014 Papers and Notes Reviewers

The CHI 2014 Conference & Program chairs and organizers wish to express their gratitude to all the
following who contributed to providing the quality presentations for this year's conference.

Subcommittee Chairs

Associate Chairs

A
J

S

B
K

T

C
L

U

D
M

V

E
N

W

F
O

X

G
P

Y

H
Q

Z

I
R

Konstantin Aal, University of Siegen, Germany
Parham Aarabi, University of Toronto, Canada
Francisco Abad, Universitat Politècnica de València, Spain
Julio Abascal, University of the Basque Country, Spain
Evgeniy Abdulin, Texas State University, USA
Saeed Abdullah, Cornell University, USA
Troy Abel, Virginia Tech, USA
Gregory Abowd, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Alessandro Acquisti, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Lada Adamic, University of Michigan, USA
Anne Adams, UCL Interaction Centre, USA
Anne Adams, Simplec, UK
Dustin Adams, University of California, USA
Kim Adams, University of Alberta, Canada
Phil Adams, Cornell University, USA
Idris Adjerid, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Rachel Adler, Northeastern Illinois University, USA
Tamara Adlin, USA
Daniel Afergan, Tufts University, USA
Ana Afonso, Universidade de Lisboa, Portugal
Stefan Agamanolis, Akron Children's Hospital, USA
Maneesh Agrawala, University of California, USA
David Ahlström, Alpen-Adria Universität Klagenfurt, Austria
Salman Ahmad, Stanford University, USA
Teemu Ahmaniemi, Nokia Research Center, Finland
June Ahn, University of Maryland, USA
Aino Ahtinen, VTT Technical Research Centre, Finland
David Akers, Stanford University, USA
Devdatta Akhawe, UC Berkeley, USA

1 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

Abdullah Al Mahmud, Delft University of Technology, Netherlands
Vicent Alabau, Universidad Politécnica de Valencia (UPV), Spain
Amro Al-Akkad, Fraunhofer Institute for Applied Information Technology (FIT),
Germany
Gazihan Alankus, Washington University In St. Louis, USA
Turadg Aleahmad, Coursera, USA
Saleem Alhabash, Michigan State University, USA
Abir Al-Hajri, UBC, Canada
Dzmitry Aliakseyeu, Philips Research, The Netherlands
Doris Allhutter, Institute of Technology Assessment, Austria
Sonya Allin, University of Toronto, Canada
Norman Alm, University of Dundee, UK
Abdullah Al-Mahmud, Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands
Omar Alonso, Microsoft, USA
Basak Alper, University of California Santa Barbara, USA
Mohammad Al-Smadi, Tallinn University, Estonia
Florian Alt, University of Munich, Germany
Bashar Altakrouri, University of Luebeck, Germany
Reem Alzahabi, Michigan State University, USA
Saleema Amershi, Microsoft Research, USA
Morgan Ames, Stanford University, USA
Oliver Amft, TU Eindhoven, Netherlands
Farshid Amirabdollahian, University of Hertfordshire, UK
Swamy Ananthanarayan, University of Colorado, USA
Margarita Anastassova, CEA, France
Nazanin Andalibi, Drexel University, USA
Erik Andersen, University of Washington, USA
Fraser Anderson, University of Alberta, Canada
Ken Anderson, Intel Corporation, USA
Nazareno Andrade, Universidade Federal de Campina Grande, Brazil
Adrienne Andrew, University of Washington, USA
Christopher Andrews, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, USA
Sean Andrist, University of Wisconsin--Madison, USA
Marvin Andujar, Clemson University, USA
Leonardo Angelini, University of Applied Sciences Western Switzerland, Svizzera
Michelle Annett, University of Alberta, Canada
Craig Anslow, Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand
Lisa Anthony, University of Florida, USA
Thomas Apperley, The University of New South Wales, Australia
Caroline Appert, Université Paris-Sud, France
Bruno Araujo, INESC-ID, Portugal
Daniel Archambault, Swansea University, UK
Carmelo Ardito, University of Bari, Italy
Ahmed Arif, Ryerson University, Canada
John Arnott, University of Dundee, UK
Rosa Arriaga, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Kate Arrington, Lehigh University, USA
Thierry Artieres, Université Pierre Et Marie Curie, France
Mariam Asad, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Chieko Asakawa, IBM Research - Tokyo, Japan
Felix-Robinson Aschoff, University of Zurich, Switzerland
Debi Ashenden, Cranfield University, UK
Maryam Ashoori, IBM, Canada
Ilhan Aslan, Universität Salzburg, Austria
Zeina Atrash, Northwestern University, USA

2 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

Alan Au, University of Washington, USA
Anne Aula, Google, USA
Hane Aung, University College London, UK
Nikolaos Avouris, University of Patras, Greece
Daniel Avrahami, Intel, USA
Katerina Avramides, London Knowledge Lab, UK
Yuji Ayatsuka, Koozyt, Japan
Matthew Aylett, Cereproc Ltd., UK
Ruth Aylett, Heriot-Watt University, UK
Mobolaji Ayoade, Glasgow Caledonian University, UK
Phillip Ayoub, Pennsylvania State University, USA
Yadid Ayzenberg, MIT, USA
Shiri Azenkot, University of Washington, USA
Maryam Azh, National University of Singapore, Singapore
Tamara Babaian, Bentley College, USA
Chris Baber, The University of Birmingham, UK
Benjamin Bach, INRIA, France
Paula Bach, The Pennsylvania State University, USA
Myroslav Bachynskyi, Max-Planck Institut Für Informatik, Germany
Jonathan Back, University College London, UK
Maribeth Back, FX Palo Alto Laboratory, USA
Norm Badler, University of Pennsylvania, USA
Sangwon Bae, Yonsei University, Seoul
Seok-Hyung Bae, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Ronald Baecker, University of Toronto, Canada
Naveen Bagalkot, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Zhen Bai, University of Cambridge, UK
Gilles Bailly, CNRS, France
Ryan Baker, Teachers College, USA
Suzanne Bakken, Columbia University, USA
Saskia Bakker, Eindhoven University of Technology, The Netherlands
Eytan Bakshy, Facebook, USA
Madeline Balaam, Newcastle University, UK
Aruna Balakrishnan, Google, USA
Guha Balakrishnan, MIT, USA
Matthias Baldauf, FTW Telecommunications Research Center, Austria
Rebecca Balebako, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Elizabeth Bales, University of Washington, USA
Robert Ball, Stephen F. KAIST, Republic of Korea in State University, USA
Stinne Ballegaard, KORA, Denmark
Till Ballendat, University of Munich, Germany
Liam Bannon, University of Limerick, Ireland
Nikola Banovic, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Francesco Banterle, ISTI-CNR, Italy
Xuan Bao, Duke University, USA
Evan Barba, Georgetown University, USA
Simone Barbosa, Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro (PUC-Rio), Brasil
Jakob Bardram, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Shaowen Bardzell, Indiana University Bloomington, USA
Javier Bargas-Avila, Google, Switzerland
Louise Barkhuus, Stockholm University, Sweden
Connelly Barnes, Princeton University, USA
Douglas Barnes
Pippin Barr, University of Malta, Malta
Barbara Barricelli, University of West London, UK

3 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Barbara Barry, MIT Media Lab, USA
Tom Bartindale, Newcastle University, UK
Christoph Bartneck, University of Canterbury, New Zealand
Thomas Bartoschek, University of Münster, Germany
Lyn Bartram, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Santosh Basapur, Illinois Institute of Technology, USA
Rahul Basole, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Arianna Bassoli, London School of Economics, UK
Archer Batcheller, University of Michigan, USA
Scott Bateman, University of Prince Edward Island, Canada
Oliver Bates, Lancaster University, UK
Agathe Battestini, Nokia, USA
Olivier Bau, Samsung Research America, USA
Patrick Baudisch, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Christine Bauer, Vienna University of Economics and Business, Austria
Jared Bauer, University of Washington, USA
Lujo Bauer, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Eric Baumer, Cornell University, USA
Gordon Baxter, University of St Andrews, UK
Philip Beaman, University of Reading, UK
David Beattie, Glasgow Caledonian University, Scotland, Uk
Michel Beaudouin-Lafon, Université Paris-Sud, France
Elke Beck, University of Salzburg, Austria
S. Ann Becker, Florida Tech, USA
Benjamin Bederson, University of Maryland, USA
Roman Bednarik, University of Eastern Finland, Finland
Jenay Beer, University of South Carolina, USA
Andrew Begel, Microsoft Research, USA
Marios Belk, University of Cyprus, Cyprus
Rachel Bellamy, IBM Research, USA
Francesco Bellotti, University of Genoa, Italy
Raquel Benbunan-Fich, Baruch College, USA
Peter Benda, The University of Melbourne, Australia
Zinaida Benenson, University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Germany
Steve Benford, University of Nottingham, UK
Mike Bennett, Microsoft, USA
Peter Bennett, University of Bristol, UK
Frank Bentley, Motorola Mobility Inc., USA
David Benyon, Edinburgh Napier University, UK
François Bérard, CLIPS-IMAG, France
Bettina Berendt, KU Leuven, Belgium
Alistair Beresford, University of Cambridge, England
Ofer Bergman, Bar-Ilan University, Israel
Kirsten Bergmann, Bielefeld University, Germany
Shane Bergsma, Johns Hopkins University, USA
Joanna Bergstrom-Lehtovirta, Helsinki Institute for Information Technology HIIT,
Finland
Shlomo Berkovsky, NICTA, Australia
Gunilla Berndtsson, Ericsson AB, Sweden
Regina Bernhaupt, IRIT, France
Olav Bertelsen, Aarhus University, Denmark
Florent Berthaut, INRIA, France
Andrew Besmer, UNC Charlotte, USA
Michael Best, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Katrien Beuls, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Belgium

4 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Chris Bevan, University of Bath, UK
Nigel Bevan, Professional Usability Services, UK
Anastasia Bezerianos, Université de Paris-Sud, France
Konstantin Beznosov, University of British Columbia, Canada
Anant Bhardwaj, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Samit Bhattacharya, IIT Guwahati, India
Xiaojun Bi, Google, USA
Andrea Bianchi, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Nadia Bianchi-Berthouze, University College London, UK
Peter Bibby, University of Nottingham, UK
Nicola Bidwell, CSIR-Meraka, South Africa
Gerald Bieber, Fraunhofer IGD, Germany
Ralf Biedert, German Research Center for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI), Germany
Jacob Biehl, FX Palo Alto Laboratory, USA
Matthew Bietz, University of California, USA
Lukas Biewald, CrowdFlower, USA
Ali Bigdelou, Technical University of Munich, Germany
Dania Bilal, University of Tennessee, USA
Mark Billinghurst, University of Canterbury, New Zealand
Dorrit Billman, NASA Ames, USA
Jens Binder, University of Manchester, UK
Jon Bird, City University London, UK
Max Birk, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Jeremy Birnholtz, Northwestern University, USA
Walter Bischof, University of Alberta, Canada
Pradipta Biswas, University of Cambridge, England
Staffan Björk, University of Gothenburg, Sweden
Pernille Bjorn, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Alan Blackwell, University of Cambridge, UK
Rachel Blagojevic, University of Auckland, New Zealand
Renaud Blanch, Université Grenoble I, France
Ann Blandford, University College London, UK
Benjamin Blankertz, Berlin Institute of Technology, Germany
Eli Blevis, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, USA
Brett Bligh, Lancaster University, UK
Jan Blom, Nokia Research Center, Switzerland
Katherine Blondon, University of Washington, USA
Marco Blumendorf, Yetu AG, Germany
Susanne Bødker, Aarhus University, Denmark
Mads Boedker, Copenhagen Business School, Denmark
Kirsten Boehner, Cornell University, USA
Cristian Bogdan, KTH, Sweden
Matthias Böhmer, German Research Center for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI),
Germany
Susanne Boll, University of Oldenburg, Germany
Albertus Bongers, University Technology Sydney, Australia
Joe Bonneau, USA
Matthew Bonner, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
David Bonnet, Université Paris-Sud & CNRS, France
Elizabeth Bonsignore, University of Maryland, USA
Kellogg Booth, University of British Columbia, Canada
Jan Borchers, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Silvia Bordin, TrentoRise, Italy
Marcela Borge, Penn State, USA
Michelle Borkin, Harvard University, USA

(Return to Top)

5 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Alan Borning, University of Washington, USA
Nis Bornoe, Aalborg University, Denmark
Gaetano Borriello, University of Washington, USA
Brennon Bortz, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, USA
Nathan Bos, University of Michigan, USA
Claus Bossen, University of Aarhus, Denmark
Paolo Bottoni, University of Rome - 'la Sapienza', Italy
Matt-Mouley Bouamrane, University of Glasgow, UK
Stephane Bouchard, Université Du Quebec En Outaouais, Canada
Andy Boucher, Goldsmiths College, UK
Nadia Boukhelifa, INRIA Saclay, France
Anders Bouwer, University of Amsterdam, Netherlands
Judy Bowen, The University of Waikato, New Zealand
Chris Bowers, University of Birmingham, UK
John Bowers, Newcastle University, UK
Geoffrey Bowker, UC Irvine, USA
Doug Bowman, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, USA
John Boyd, Google, Na
Erin Bradner, Autodesk, USA
Erin Brady, University of Rochester, USA
Andrew Bragdon, Microsoft, USA
Jonathan Bragg, University of Washington, USA
Giorgio Brajnik, University of Udine, Italy
Pedro Branco, University of Minho, Portugal
Joel Brandt, Adobe Research, USA
Stacy Branham, Virginia Tech, USA
Tone Bratteteig, University of Oslo, Norway
Cristian Bravo-Lillo, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Matthew Brehmer, University of British Columbia, Canada
Margot Brereton, Queensland University of Technology, Australia
Robert Brewer, University of Hawaii at Manoa, USA
Jo Briggs, Northumbria University, UK
Pam Briggs, Northumbria University, UK
Willem-Paul Brinkman, Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands
Katie Brittain, Newcastle University, UK
Juliana Brixey, UT Health Science Center at Houston, USA
Anke Brock, IRIT, France
Eric Brockmeyer, Disney Research, USA
Gregor Broll, DOCOMO Euro-Labs, Germany
Geert Brone, University of Leuven - Campus Antwerp, Belgium
Jonas Brönstrup, Technical University of Berlin, Germany
Andy Brooks, University of California, USA
Mark Brosnan, University of Bath, UK
Ryan Brotman, Intel Corporation, USA
Anne-Marie Brouwer, TNO Human Factors, Netherlands
Barry Brown, University of California San Diego, USA
Deana Brown, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Michael Brown, The University of Nottingham, UK
Jed Brubaker, University of California, USA
Amy Bruckman, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Gerd Bruder, University of Würzburg, Germany
Pascal Bruegger, University of Applied Sciences, Switzerland
Clemens Brunner, Graz University of Technology, Austria
Miguel Bruns Alonso, Eindhoven University of Technology, The Netherlands
Anders Bruun, Aalborg University, Denmark

(Return to Top)

6 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Nick Bryan-Kinns, Queen Mary, UK
Martin Brynskov, Aarhus University, Denmark
Michael Brzozowski, Google, USA
George Buchanan, City University London, UK
Sarah Buchanan, University of Central Florida, USA
Karolina Buchner, Yahoo! Labs, USA
Elizabeth Buie, Northumbria University, UK
Andrea Bunt, University of Manitoba, Canada
Cody Buntain, University of Maryland, USA
Judee Burgoon, University of Arizona, USA
Stefano Burigat, University of Udine, Italy
Moira Burke, Facebook, USA
Gary Burnett, University of Nottingham, UK
Margaret Burnett, Oregon State University, USA
Jesse Burstyn, Queen's University, Canada
Chris Burton, University of Edinburgh, UK
Jerry Busby, Lancaster University, UK
Marc Busch, CURE - Center for Usability Research & Engineering, Austria
Georg Buscher, Microsoft, USA
Monika Buscher, Lancaster University, UK
Stefano Bussolon, Università di Trento, Italy
Brian Butler, UMD, USA
D. Alex Butler, Microsoft Research, UK
Fabio Buttussi, University of Udine, Italy
Ayse Buyuktur, University of Michigan, USA
Daragh Byrne, Arizona State University, USA
Michael Byrne, Rice University, USA
Béatrice Cahour, CNRS Télécom Paristech, France
Kelly Caine, Clemson University, USA
Paul Cairns, University of York, UK
Maya Cakmak, University of Washington, USA
Jeffrey Calcaterra, IBM Corporation, USA
Roberto Calderon, University of British Columbia, Canada
André Calero Valdez, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Janko Calic, CVSS, UK
Chris Callison-Burch, Johns Hopkins University, USA
Gaelle Calvary, Grenoble Institute of Technology, France
Licia Calvi, NHTV Breda University of Applied Sciences, The Netherlands
L Jean Camp, Indiana University, USA
Jose Campos, Universidade do Minho, Portugal
Heloisa Candello, University of Brighton, UK
Angelo Cangelosi, Plymouth University, UK
Cristina Cannone, Università degli Studi di Milano, Italy
Robert Capra, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, USA
Baptiste Caramiaux, Goldsmiths College, London
Giuseppe Carenini, University of British Columbia, Canada
Stefan Carmien, University of Colorado, Spain
Davide Carneiro, University of Minho, Portugal
Sheelagh Carpendale, University of Calgary, Canada
Luis Carriço, University of Lisbon, Portugal
John Carroll, The Pennsylvania State University, USA
Scott Carter, FX Palo Alto Laboratory, USA
Thomas Carter, University of Bristol, UK
Samuel Carton, Northwestern University, USA
Mark Cartwright, Northwestern University, USA

(Return to Top)

7 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Géry Casiez, University of Lille & INRIA Lille, France
Alvaro Cassinelli, University of Tokyo (todai), Japan
Steven Castellucci, York University, Canada
Marcelo Cataldo, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Grevet Catherine, GVU Center, USA
Abigail Cauchi, Swansea University, UK
Marc Cavazza, University of Tesside, UK
James Caverlee, Texas A&M University, USA
Melissa Cefkin, IBM Research, USA
Robert Cercos, RMIT University, Australia
Daniel Cernea, University of Kaiserslautern, Germany
Matteo Cesana, Politecnico di Milano, Italy
Pablo Cesar, CWI, The Netherlands
Ruy Cevantes, UC Irvine, USA
Elizabeth Cha, Personal Robotics Lab, USA
Samidh Chakrabarti, Google, USA
Matthew Chalmers, University of Glasgow, UK
Teresa Chambel, University of Lisbon, Portugal
Alan Chamberlain, The University of Nottingham, UK
Erik Champion, Curtin University, Australia
Deborah Chan, University Health Network, Canada
Joel Chan, University of Pittsburgh, USA
Liwei Chan, Academia Sinica, Taiwan
Angela Chang, MIT Media Lab, USA
Keng-Hao Chang, University of California, Berkeley
Remco Chang, Tufts University, USA
Peter Chapman, University of Nottingham, UK
Olivier Chapuis, Université Paris-Sud, France
Catherine Chase, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Duen Horng (polo) Chau, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Beenish Chaudry, Indiana University, USA
Fang Chen, Tsinghua University, Spain
Gaowei Chen, Pittsburg University,
Hsiang-Ting Chen, University of Tokyo, Taiwan
Jay Chen, New York University, USA
Jilin Chen, IBM Research, USA
Judy Chen, University of California, USA
Liming Chen, University of Ulster, UK
Monchu Chen, University of Madeira, Portugal
Xiang 'Anthony' Chen, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Yi-Shin Chen, National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan
Britte Cheng, SRI International, USA
Kai-Yin Cheng, Microsoft Research Asia, Taiwan
Lung-Pan Cheng, National Taiwan University, Germany
Shiwei Cheng, Zhejiang University of Technology, China
Mauro Cherubini, Telefonica Research, Italy
Marshini Chetty, University of Maryland, USA
Gifford Cheung, University of Washington, USA
Ed Chi, Google, USA
Pei-Yu Chi, University of California, USA
Sonia Chiasson, Carleton University, Canada
Mark Chignell, University of Toronto, Canada
Parmit Chilana, University of Waterloo, USA
Lydia Chilton, MIT CSAIL, USA
Alvin Chin, Nokia Research Center, China

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

8 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

George Chin, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, USA
Clark Chinn, Rutgers University,
Winyu Chinthammit, University of Tasmania, KAIST, Republic of Korea ralila
Eun Kyoung Choe, University of Washington, USA
Erik Choi, Rutgers University, USA
Ming Ki Chong, Lancaster University, UK
Wen Huei Chou, Yunline University of Science and Technology, Taiwan
Tanzeem Choudhury, Dartmouth College, USA
Ellen Christiansen, Mads Clausen Institute, Denmark
Georgios Christou, Cyprus College, Cyprus
Hao-Hua Chu, National Taiwan University, Taiwan
Jason Chuang, University of Washington, USA
Tyng-Ruey Chuang, Academia Sinica, Taiwan
Chia-Fang Chung, University of Washington, USA
Eunki Chung, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Karen Church, Telefonica Research, Spain
Elizabeth Churchill, eBay Research Lab, USA
Marcelo Cicconet, New York University, USA
Jesse Cirimele, Stanford University, USA
Gabriel Cirio
Adrian Clark, University of Canterbury, New Zealand
Alan Clark, Northwestern University, USA
Lillian Clark, University of Portsmouth, UK
Rachel Clarke, Newcastle University, UK
James Clawson, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Adrian Clear, Lancaster University, UK
Tamara Clegg, University of Maryland, USA
Torkil Clemmensen, Copenhagen Business School, Denmark
Sue Cobb, University of Nottingham, UK
Michael Coburn, RMIT University, Australia
Gilbert Cockton, Northumbria University, UK
Gabe Cohn, University of Washington, USA
Marisa Cohn, University of California Irvine, USA
Michael Cohn, Compukol Communications LLC, USA
Jared Cole, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Heather Cole-Lewis, Columbia University, USA
Lizzie Coles-Kemp, Royal Holloway, UK
Christopher Collins, University of Ontario Institute of Technology, Canada
Kevyn Collins-Thompson, University of Michigan, USA
Sébastien Combéfis, Université Catholique de Louvain, Belgium
Cristina Conati, University of British Columbia, Canada
Karin Coninx, Hasselt University, Belgium
Kay Connelly, Indiana University Bloomington, USA
Sunny Consolvo, Google, USA
Stéphane Conversy, ENAC, France
Gregorio Convertino, Xerox Research Center Europe, Italy
Perry Cook, Princeton Computer Science, USA
Michael Cooke, Trinity College Dublin, Ireland
Kovila Coopamootoo, Newcastle University, UK
Seth Cooper, University of Washington, USA
Andrew Cordar, University of Florida, USA
Raymundo Cornejo, CICESE, Mexico
Nicola Corradi, Università di Padova, Italy
Dan Cosley, Cornell University, USA
Joao Costa, University of Ontario Institute of Technology, Canada

9 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Gennaro Costagliola, University of Salerno, Italy
Enrico Costanza, University of Southampton, UK
James Coughlan, Smith-Kettlewell Eye Research Institute, USA
Tim Coughlan, The University of Nottingham, UK
Paul Coulton, Lancaster University, UK
Scott Counts, Microsoft Research, USA
Céline Coutrix, Université Joseph Fourier, France
Lynne Coventry, University of Northumbria, UK
Benjamin Cowan, University of Birmingham, UK
Anna Cox, University College London, UK
David Coyle, University of Bristol, UK
Michael Crabb, University of Dundee, Scotland, UK
Claire Craig, Sheffield Hallam University, UK
Scotty Craig, Arizona State University,
Henriette Cramer, Yahoo! Labs, USA
Meg Cramer, UC Irvine, USA
Angela Crandall, iHub, Kenya
Justin Cranshaw, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Charles Crook, University of Nottingham, UK
Andrew Crossan, University of Glasgow, UK
R. Jordan Crouser, Tufts University, USA
Kevin Crowston, Syracuse University, USA
David Crundall, University of Nottingham, UK
Weiwei Cui, Microsoft Research Asia, China
Yanqing Cui, Nokia Research Center, Finland
Franco Curmi, Lancaster University, UK
Simone Cutini, Università di Padova, Italy
Edward Cutrell, Microsoft Research India, India
Chandrika Cycil, Brunel University, UK
Allen Cypher, IBM Research - Almaden, USA
Mary Czerwinski, Microsoft Research, USA
Alexei Czeskis, Google, USA
Raimund Dachselt, Technische Universität Dresden, Germany
Palle Dahlstedt, Chalmers,
Peng Dai, Google, USA
Florian Daiber, DFKI German Research Center for AI, Germany
Peter Dalsgaard, Aarhus University, Denmark
Ruth Dalton, Northumbria University, UK
Sashikanth Damaraju, Texas A&M University, USA
Chi Tai Dang, University of Augsburg, Germany
Andreea Danielescu, Arizona State University, USA
Darcy Dapra, Google, USA
Sauvik Das, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Jennifer Davidson, Oregon State University, USA
Nigel Davies, Lancaster University, UK
James Davis, UC Santa Cruz, USA
Janet Davis, Grinnell College, USA
Katie Davis, University of Washington,
Richard Davis, Singapore Management University, Singapore
Rahmad Dawood, Universitas Syiah Kuala, Indonesia
Munmun de Choudhury, Microsoft Research, USA
Tjerk de Greef, Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands
Edward de Guzman, Autodesk, USA
Martin de Jode, University College London, UK
Daniele de Massari, Fondazione Ospedale San Camillo, Italy

10 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

Clarisse de Souza, PUC-Rio, Brazil
Cleidson de Souza, Universidade Federal do Pará, Brazil
David Dearman, Twitter, USA
Rob Deline, Microsoft Research, USA
Nicola Dell, University of Washington, USA
Robert Deloatch, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA
Cagatay Demiralp, Stanford University, USA
Carrie Demmans Epp, University of Toronto, Canada
Nick Depalma, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Jan Derboven, IBBT-KU Leuven, Belgium
Katie Derthick, University of Washington, USA
Parag Deshpande, Umeå Institute of Design, Sweden
Audrey Desjardins, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Heather Desurvire, Behavioristics, USA
Sebastian Deterding, Hans Bredow Institute for Media Research, Germany
Laura Devendorf, UC Berkeley, USA
Guy Dewsbury, Gdewsbury, UK
Anind Dey, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Barbara di Eugenio, University of Illinois, USA
Nicholas Diakopoulos, Rutgers University, USA
E.ilana Diamant, University of Pittsburgh, USA
Michael Dickard, Ohio University, USA
Margaret Dickey-Kurdziolek, Virginia Tech, USA
Sarah Diefenbach, Folkwang University of the Arts, Germany
Paul Dietz, Microsoft, USA
Tawanna Dillahunt, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Jill Dimond, Sassafras Tech Collective, USA
Christian Dindler, Aarhus University, Denmark
Xianghua Ding, Fudan University, China
Abdigani Diriye, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Betsy Disalvo, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Carl Disalvo, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Anke Dittmar, University of Rostock, Germany
Stephen Diverdi, Adobe Systems Inc, USA
Alan Dix, Lancaster University, UK
Sidney D'mello, University of Notre Dame, USA
Chuong do, Coursera,
Gavin Doherty, Trinity College Dublin, Ireland
Lynn Dombrowski, University of California Irvine, USA
Judith Donath, MIT, USA
Tao Dong, University of Michigan, USA
Birsen Donmez, University of Toronto, Canada
Marco Donnarumma, Goldsmiths College, UK
Jonathan Donner, Microsoft Research India, USA
Mira Dontcheva, Adobe Research, USA
James Doodson, University of Leicester, England, UK
Tanja Döring, University of Bremen, Germany
Marian Dörk, Newcastle University, UK
Brian Dorn, University of Nebraska at Omaha, USA
Michael Dorsch, University of Michigan, USA
Afsaneh Doryab, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Jakub Dostal, University of St Andrews, UK
Wenwen Dou, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, US
Andre Doucette, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Audubon Dougherty, MIT, USA

11 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Mark Doughty, University of Lincoln, UK
Paul Dourish, University of California, USA
John Downs, The University of Melbourne, Australia
Julie Downs, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Toby Dragon, Ithaca College, USA
Christoph Draxler, LMU München, Germany
Martha Driessnack, Oregon Health & Science University, USA
Laurie Dringus, Nova Southeastern University, USA
Milena Droumeva, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Steven Drucker, Microsoft Research, USA
Allison Druin, University of Maryland, USA
Honglu Du, Palo Alto Research Center, USA
Ruofei Du, Microsoft Research Asia, China
Tina Du, University of South KAIST, Republic of Korea ralia, Australia
Carlos Duarte, Universidade de Lisboa, Portugal
Luís Duarte, University of Lisbon, Portugal
Emmanuel Dubois, University of Toulouse, France
Nicolas Ducheneaut, Palo Alto Research Center, USA
Andrew Duchowski, Clemson University, USA
Tobias Duckworth, University of Salford, UK
Casey Dugan, IBM, USA
Geoffrey Duggan, University of Exeter, UK
Susan Dumais, Microsoft Research, USA
Bruno Dumas, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Belgium
Sean Duncan, Indiana University, USA
Lucy Dunne, University College Dublin, Ireland
Paul Dunphy, Newcastle University, UK
Andreas Dünser, CSIRO - CCI, Australia
Sophie Dupuy-Chessa, University of Grenoble, France
Shree Durga, University of Wisconsin, USA
Abigail Durrant, Newcastle University, UK
Erik Duval, KU Leuven, Belgium
Tim Dwyer, Monash University, Australia
Jason Dykes, City University London, UK
James Eagan, Télécom-Paristech, France
Sarah Eagle, University of Bristol, UK
David Ebert, Purdue University, USA
Florian Echtler, Siemens Corporate Technology, Germany
Dean Eckles, Stanford University, USA
Ernest Edmonds, De Montfort University, UK
Alistair Edwards, University of York, UK
Keith Edwards, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Kate Ehrlich, IBM, USA
Michael Eisenberg, University of Colorado, USA
Inger Ekman, Aalto School of Economics, Finland
Rana El Kaliouby, University of Cambridge, UK
Irene Eleta, University of Maryland, USA
Gunnar Ellingsen, University of Tromsø, Norway
Dan Ellis, Columbia University, USA
Geoff Ellis, Lancaster University, UK
Nicole Ellison, University of Michigan, USA
Lia Emanuel, University of Bath, UK
Bernadette Emsenhuber, Johannes Kepler University of Linz, Austria
Alex Endert, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, USA
Klaus-Peter Engelbrecht, Telekom Innovation Laboratories, Germany

12 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

David England, Liverpool John Moores University, UK
Arvid Engström, Mobile Life @ Stockholm University, Sweden
Johan Engström, Volvo Group Trucks Technology, Sweden
Barrett Ens, University of Manitoba, Canada
Clayton Epp, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Daniel Epstein, University of Washington, USA
Sheena Erete, Northwestern University, USA
Ingrid Erickson, Rutgers University, USA
Thomas Erickson, IBM Research - T. J. Watson, USA
Elina Eriksson, KTH, Sweden
Eva Eriksson, Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden
Lizbeth Escobedo, Universidad Autonoma de Baja California, Mexico
Parisa Eslambolchilar, Future Interaction Technologies Lab, UK
Sergio Espana, Universitat Politecnica de Valencia, Spain
Augusto Esteves, University of Madeira, Portugal
Michael Evans, British Broadcasting Corporation, UK
Vanessa Evers, University of Twente, The Netherlands
Marc Fabri, Leeds Metropolitan University, UK
Jerry Fails, Montclair State University, USA
Shamal Faily, University of Oxford, UK
Anthony Faiola, Indiana University (IUPUI), USA
Fiona Fairlie, Glasgow Caledonian University, UK
Majdi Faleh
Josef Faller, Graz University of Technology, Austria
Daniel Fallman, Umeå University, Sweden
Min Fan, Simon Fraser University Surrey, Canada
Xianyong Fang, Anhui University, China
Jill Fantauzza, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Jan Erik Farbrot, Institute for Energy Technology / OECD Halden Reactor Project,
Norway
Elisabetta Farella, DEIS - University of Bologna, Italy
Shelly Farnham, Microsoft Research, USA
Umer Farooq, The Pennsylvania State University, USA
Karen Farris, University of Michigan, USA
Michael Farrugia, UCD Dublin, Luxembourg
Rosta Farzan, University of Pittsburgh, USA
Haakon Faste, California College of the Arts, USA
Andrew Faulring, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Stu Favilla, Swinburne University of Technology, Australia
Melanie Feinberg, University of Texas at KAIST, Republic of Korea in, USA
Jean-Daniel Fekete, INRIA, France
Niels Feldmann, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), Germany
Karla Felix Navarro, University of Technology Sydney, Australia
Deborah Fels, Ryerson University, Canada
Sidney Fels, University of British Columbia, Canada
Adrienne Felt, Google, USA
Jinjuan Feng, University of Maryland, USA
Robert Ferguson, McGill University, Canada
Jennifer Fernquist, Google,
Denzil Ferreira, University of Oulu, Finland
Pedro Ferreira, Mobile Life @ KTH, Sweden
Gabriele Ferri, Indiana University, USA
Brian Ferris, University of Washington, USA
Francesco Ferrise, Politecnico di Milano, Italy
Bruce Ferwerda, Johannes Kepler University, Austria

(Return to Top)

13 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Mirko Fetter, University of Bamberg, Germany
Stephen Few, Perceptual Edge, USA
Christos Fidas, University of Cyprus, Cyprus
Rebecca Fiebrink, Princeton University, UK
Daniel Filonik, Queensland University of Technology, Germany
Leah Findlater, University of Maryland, USA
Thomas Finholt, University of Michigan, USA
Julia Fink, Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL), Switzerland
Janet Finlay, Leeds Metropolitan University, UK
Andrew Fiore, Facebook, USA
Joel Fischer, The University of Nottingham, UK
Brian Fisher, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Danyel Fisher, Microsoft Research, USA
Stephen Fitchett, University of Canterbury, New Zealand
Daniel Fitton, University of Central Lancashire, UK
Elizabeth Fitzgerald, The Open University, UK
George Fitzmaurice, Autodesk, Canada
Geraldine Fitzpatrick, Vienna University of Technology, Austria
Zachary Fitz-Walter, Queensland University of Technology, Australia
Steve Flaherty, Northeaster University, USA
David Flatla, University of Dundee, UK
Ivan Flechais, University of Oxford, England, UK
Rowanne Fleck, University College London, UK
Scott Fleming, University of Memphis, USA
Martin Flintham, The University of Nottingham, UK
John Flowers, University of Nebraska -- Lincoln, USA
Allen Flynn, University of Michigan, USA
Brynn Flynn, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
James Fogarty, University of Washington, USA
Bj Fogg, Stanford University, USA
Sean Follmer, MIT, USA
Eelke Folmer, University of Nevada, USA
Peter Forbrig, University of Rostock, Germany
Alain Forget, Carleton University, Canada
Azadeh Forghani, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Laura Forlano, Parsons The New School for Design, USA
David Forsyth, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA
Andrea Forte, Drexel University, USA
Jutta Fortmann, University of Oldenburg, Germany
Lesley Fosh, The University of Nottingham, UK
Elizabeth Foss, University of Maryland, USA
Derek Foster, University of Lincoln, UK
Stephen Foster, UC San Diego, USA
Marcus Foth, Queensland University of Technology, Australia
Brooke Foucault, Northwestern University, USA
Adam Fourney, University of Waterloo, Canada
Adam Fouse, University of California, USA
Allan Fowler, Waiariki Institute of Technology, New Zealand
Sarah Fox, University of Washington, USA
Suely Fragoso, Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS), Brazil
Anders Frank, Swedish National Defence College, Sweden
Mario Frank, UC Berkeley, Germany
Mike Fraser, University of Bristol, UK
Christopher Frauenberger, University of Sussex, UK
Dustin Freeman, University of Toronto, Canada

(Return to Top)

14 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

Euan Freeman, University of Glasgow, Scotland, UK
Andre Freire, Universidade de Lisboa, Brazil
Luanne Freund, University of British Columbia, Canada
Jill Freyne, CSIRO, Australia
Sarah-Christin Freytag, Berlin Institute of Technology, Germany
Enrique Frias-Martinez, Telefonica Research, Spain
Adrian Friday, Lancaster University, UK
Doron Friedman, The Interdisciplinary Center, Israel
Mathias Frisch, MID Gmbh, Germany
Chris Frisina, Virginia Tech, USA
Jonas Fritsch, Aarhus University, Denmark
Mario Fritz, MPI Informatik, Germany
Thomas Fritz, University of Zurich, Switzerland
Bernd Froehlich, Bauhaus Universität Weimar, Germany
Jon Froehlich, University of Maryland, USA
David Frohlich, University of Surrey, UK
Peter Fröhlich, FTW Telecommunications Research Center, Austria
Erik Frøkjær, Københavns Universitet, Denmark
Mads Frost, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Wai-Tat Fu, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA
Georg Fuchs, Fraunhofer Institute Intelligent Analysis and Information Systems IAIS,
Germany
Johannes Fuchs, University, Germany
Verena Fuchsberger, ICT&S Center, Austria
Kaori Fujinami, Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, Japan
Kentarou Fukuda, IBM Research - Tokyo, Japan
Benjamin Fung, McGill University, Canada
Mathias Funk, Eindhoven University of Technology, The Netherlands
Silvia Gabrielli, Create-Net, Italy
Hind Gacem, Télécom-Paristech, France
Martin Gaedke, Technische Universität Chemnitz, Germany
Andrea Gaggioli, Catholic University of Milan, Italy
Sarah Gallacher, UCL, UK
Teresa Galvão, Universidade do Porto, Portugal
Maribeth Gandy, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Eva Ganglbauer, Vienna University of Technology, Austria
Ge Gao, Cornell University, USA
Ruth García-Gavilanes, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Spain
Simson Garfinkel, MIT, USA
R. Kelly Garrett, Ohio State University, USA
Daniel Gartenberg, George Mason University, USA
Franca Garzotto, HOC-Politecnico di Milano, Italy
Nadia Gauducheau, ICD-CNRS, France
Steffen Gauglitz, University of California, USA
Paul Gault, University of Dundee, UK
William Gaver, Goldsmiths College, UK
Tom Gedeon, KAIST, Republic of Korea ralian National University, Australia
Nils Gehlenborg, Harvard Medical School, USA
Sven Gehring, German Research Center for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI), Germany
Johanna Gelderblom, University of Pretoria, South Africa
Hans Gellersen, Lancaster University, UK
Aaron Genest, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Kallirroi Georgila, University of Southern California, USA
Elizabeth Gerber, Northwestern University, USA
Peter Gerjets, Knowledge Media Research Center,

15 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Jens Gerken, ICT Innovative Communication Technologies AG, Germany
Kathrin Gerling, University of Lincoln, UK
David Gerritsen, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Paul Gestwicki, Ball State University, USA
Luc Geurts, KU Leuven, Belgium
Werner Geyer, IBM Research - T. J. Watson, USA
Giuseppe Ghiani, ISTI-CNR, Italy
George Ghinea, Brunel University, UK
Emilien Ghomi, Université Paris-Sud, France
Maysam Ghovanloo, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Alicia Gibb, Nycresistor, USA
Lorna Gibson, University of Dundee, UK
Eric Gilbert, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Kathleen Gilbert, Indiana University, USA
Alastair Gill, University of Surrey, UK
Kiel Gilleade, Liverpool John Moores University, UK
Nicholas Gillian, MIT Media Lab, USA
Stephen Gilroy, Teesside University, UK
Shuli Gilutz, Interdisciplinary Center (IDC) Herzliya, Israel
Shiry Ginosar, University of California, USA
Jeffrey Girard, University of Pittsburgh, USA
Audrey Girouard, Carleton University, Canada
Voula Gkatzidou, Brunel University, UK
Dylan Glas, ATR, Japan
Marie Glasemann, Aalborg University, Denmark
Michael Glueck, University of Toronto, Canada
Janet Go, Autodesk, USA
Kentaro Go, University of Yamanashi, Japan
Fernand Gobet, University of Liverpool, UK
Mayank Goel, University of Washington, USA
Anja Goeritz, University of Freiburg, Germany
Sean Goggins, University of Missouri, USA
Wooi Boon Goh, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
Sergio Goldenberg, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Scott Golder, Cornell University, USA
Ilya Goldin, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Dan Goldman, Adobe, USA
David Golightly, Experian UK, UK
Connie Golsteijn, Eindhoven University of Technology, Netherlands
Evan Golub, University of Maryland, USA
Richard Gomer, University of Southampton, UK
Antonio Gomes, Queen's University, Canada
Rafael Gomez, Queensland University of Technology, Australia
Steven Gomez, Brown University, USA
Jorge Goncalves, Instituto Superior Técnico, Finland
Daniel Gonçalves, University of Oulu, Portugal
Tiago Gonçalves, FCUL, Portugal
Nan-Wei Gong, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Amy Gonzales, Indiana University, USA
Berto Gonzalez, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, USA
Victor Gonzalez, University of Manchester, UK
Walkyria Goode, SPARK Experience, USA
Elizabeth Goodman, UC Berkeley, USA
Paul Gorman, Oregon Health & Science University, USA
Sandy Gould, University College London, UK

16 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Rúben Gouveia, University of Madeira, Portugal
Nitesh Goyal, Cornell University, USA
Kazjon Grace, UNC Charlotte, USA
Michele Graffeo, University of Trento, Italy
Connor Graham, National University of Singapore, Singapore
Martin Graham, Napier University, UK
Nicholas Graham, Queen's University, Canada
Klaus Gramann, Berlin Institute of Technology, Germany
Dimitris Grammenos, Foundation for Research and Technology - Hellas, Greece
Sukeshini Grandhi, Eastern Connecticut State University, USA
Laura Granka, Google, USA
Raphael Grasset, Graz University of Technology, Austria
Colin Gray, Indiana University, USA
Rebecca Gray, Michigan State University, USA
David Green, Newcastle University, UK
Keith Green, Clemson University, USA
Michael Greenberg, Northwestern University, USA
Saul Greenberg, University of Calgary, Canada
Chris Greenhalgh, The University of Nottingham, UK
Peggy Gregory, University of Central Lancashire, UK
Catherine Grevet, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Harry Griffin, University College London, UK
Erin Griffiths, University of Virginia, USA
Thomas Grill, University of Salzburg, Austria
Rebecca Grinter, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Laurent Grisoni, University Lille, France
Alex Groce, Oregon State University, USA
Georg Groh, TU Muenchen, Germany
Diane Gromala, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Kaj Grønbæk, University of Aarhus, Denmark
Erik Grönvall, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Mark Gross, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Shad Gross, Indiana University Bloomington, USA
Tom Gross, University of Bamberg, Germany
Jens Grossklags, The Pennsylvania State University, USA
Jens Grubert, University of Technology Graz, Austria
Shion Guha, Cornell University, USA
Yves Guiard, Télécom-Paristech CNRS, France
François Guimbretière, Cornell University, USA
Rebecca Gulotta, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Hatice Gunes, University of Technology, Australia
Philip Guo, Stanford University, USA
Ankit Gupta, University of Washington, USA
Sidhant Gupta, University of Washington, USA
David Gurzick, Hood College, USA
Sean Gustafson, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Mattia Gustarini, University of Geneva, Switzerland
Francisco Luis Gutiérrez Vela, University of Granada, España
Ricardo Gutierrez-Osuna, Texas A&M University, USA
Mark Guzdial, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Tajin Ha, KAIST, S. Korea
Joerg Haake, Fernuniversitaet Hagen, Germany
Eija Haapalainen Ferreira, University of Oulu, Finland
Eben Haber, IBM Research - Almaden, USA
Jonathan Haber, University of Calgary, Canada

(Return to Top)

17 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Martin Hachet, Labri-INRIA University of Bordeaux, France
Mieke Haesen, Hasselt University - Tul - Iminds, Belgium
Joshua Hailpern, Hewlett Packard, USA
Oliver Haimson, University of California, USA
Julia Haines, University of California, USA
Maria Håkansson, Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden
David Hakken, Indiana University Bloomongton, USA
Jonna Hakkila, University of Oulu, Finland
Jonna Häkkilä, Soul4design, Finland
Jukka Häkkinen, Aalto University School of Science and Technology, Finland
Timothy Hale, Partners Healthcare Inc., USA
Aaron Halfaker, University of Minnesota, USA
Joseph Hall, The Center for Democracy & Technology, USA
Michael Haller, University of Applied Sciences Upper KAIST, Republic of Korea ria,
Austria
Lars Hallnäs, Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden
John Halloran, Coventry University, UK
Kim Halskov, Aarhus University, Denmark
Christine Halverson, IBM Research - T. J. Watson, USA
Tim Halverson, Air Force Research Laboratory, USA
Martin Halvey, Glasgow Caledonian University, UK
Perttu Hämäläinen, Aalto University, Finland
William Hamilton, Texas A&M University, USA
Jessica Hammer, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Nils Hammerla, Newcastle University, UK
Tracy Hammond, Texas A&M University, USA
Jaehyun Han, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Jeonghye Han, Computer Education, Republic of Korea
Kyungsik (keith) Han, The Pennsylvania State University, USA
Teng Han, University of Bristol, China
Jeff Hancock, Cornell University, USA
Mark Handel, The Boeing Company, USA
Alina Hang, University of Munich, Germany
Benjamin Hanrahan, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, France
Derek Hansen, Brigham Young University, USA
John Paulin Hansen, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Kotaro Hara, University of Maryland, USA
Mona Haraty, University of British Columbia, Canada
Marian Harbach, Leibniz University Hannover, Germany
Gunnar Harboe, University of Zurich, Switzerland
Ellie Harmon, UC Irvine, USA
Morten Harning, Dialogical ApS, Denmark
Franklin Harper, University of Minnesota, USA
Richard Harper, Microsoft Research, UK
Simon Harper, University of Manchester, UK
Erik Harpstead, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Rikard Harr, Umeå University, Sweden
Chris Harrison, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Daniel Harrison, University College London, UK
Lane Harrison, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, USA
Jennefer Hart, Lancaster University, UK
Casper Harteveld, Northeastern University, USA
Björn Hartmann, University of California, USA
Mark Hartswood, University of Edinburgh, UK
Andrea Hartzler, University of Washington, USA

(Return to Top)

18 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Catherine Harvey, University of Nottingham, UK
Khalad Hasan, University of Manitoba, Canada
Chelsea Hash, Polytechnic Institute of NYU, USA
Mitsuyo Hashida, Soai Uiversity, Japan
Marc Hassenzahl, Folkwang University of the Arts, Germany
Doris Hausen, University of Munich, Germany
Sabrina Hauser, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Kirstie Hawkey, Dalhousie University, Canada
Eiji Hayashi, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Gillian Hayes, University of California, USA
Helen He, University of Calgary, Canada
Marti Hearst, UC Berkeley, USA
Brent Hecht, University of Minnesota, USA
Per-Olof Hedvall, Lund University, Sweden
Jaimee Heffner, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, USA
Tomi Heimonen, University of Tampere, Finland
Eric Hekler, Arizona State University, USA
Robert Held, University of California, USA
Bradley Hemminger, University of North Carolina, USA
Niels Hendriks, University of Leuven, Belgium
David Hendry, University of Washington, USA
Fabian Hennecke, University of Munich, Germany
Nathalie Henry Riche, Microsoft Research, USA
Niels Henze, University of Stuttgart, Germany
Cormac Herley, Microsoft Research, Ghjhj
Hamilton Hernandez, Queen's University, Canada
Davinia Hernandez-Leo, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Spain
Marc Herrlich, University of Bremen, Germany
Morten Hertzum, University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Philipp Herzig, SAP Research CEC Dresden, Germany
Phil Heslop, Newcastle University, UK
Luke Hespanhol, University of Sydney, Australia
Jan Hess, University of Siegen, Germany
Susan Hessey, Brithish Telecom, UK
Wilko Heuten, OFFIS - Institute for Information Technology, Germany
Clint Heyer, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Nadja Heym, University of Nottingham, UK
Jutta Hild, Fraunhofer IOSB, Germany
Benjamin Mako Hill, University of Washington, USA
Serena Hillman, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Juan David Hincapié-Ramos, IT University of Copenhagen, Canada
Ken Hinckley, Microsoft Research, USA
Jon Hindmarsh, King's College London, UK
Uta Hinrichs, University of St Andrews, UK
Sen Hirano, University of California, USA
Matthew Hirsch, MIT Media Lab, USA
Tad Hirsch, University of Washington, USA
Leanne Hirshfield, Hamilton College, USA
Chaya Hiruncharoenvate, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Christina Hochleitner, CURE - Center for Usability Research & Engineering, Austria
Nadia Hocine, Montpellier 2 University, France
Duncan Hodges, University of Oxford, UK
Gray Hodgkinson, Massey University, New Zealand
Orland Hoeber, University of Regina, Canada
Jesse Hoey, University of Waterloo, Canada

(Return to Top)

19 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Guy Hoffman, IDC Herzliya, Israel
Bernie Hogan, University of Toronto, Canada
Trevor Hogan, Cork Institute of Technology, Ireland
Andrew Hogue, University of Ontario Institute of Technology, Canada
James Hollan, UCSD, USA
Simon Holland, The Open University, UK
Tobias Hollerer, University of California, USA
Nic Hollinworth, University of Reading, UK
Caitlin Holman, University of Michigan, USA
David Holman, Queen's University, Canada
Hrönn Holmer, Cornell University, USA
Stefan Holmlid, Linköpings universitet, Sweden
Lars Erik Holmquist, Indep. Consultant, USA
Kenneth Holmqvist, Lund University, Sweden
Bree Holtz, Information Studies and Media, USA
Christian Holz, Yahoo! Labs, USA
Andreas Holzinger, Graz Medical University, Austria
Hwajung Hong, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Jason Hong, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Jin-Hyuk Hong, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Lichan Hong, Google, USA
Kristina Höök, KTH, Sweden
Mohammed Hoque, University of Rochester, USA
Michael Horn, Northwestern University, USA
John Horton, Harvard University, USA
Matthew Horton, Child Computer Interaction Group, UK
Simo Hosio, University of Oulu, Finland
Steven Houben, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Kirralie Houghton, Queensland University of Technology, Australia
Robert Houghton, The University of Nottingham, UK
Juan Pablo Hourcade, University of Iowa, USA
Rachid Hourizi, University of Bath, UK
Aaron Houssian, Philips Research, The Netherlands
Andrew Howes, University of Manchester, UK
James Howison, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Kate Howland, University of Sussex, UK
Iris Howley, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Idris Hsi, Microsoft, USA
Yi-Ta Hsieh, University of Helsinki, Finland
Chang Hu, Microsoft, USA
Jun Hu, Eindhoven University of Technology, Netherlands
Mengdie Hu, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Y. Charlie Hu, Purdue University, USA
Yuheng Hu, Arizona State University, USA
Chung-Ching Huang, Indiana University, USA
Haosheng Huang, Research Group Cartography, Austria
Jeff Huang, University of Washington, USA
Kevin Huang, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Shih-Wen Huang, University of Washington, USA
Jochen Huber, MIT Media Lab, USA
Bernardo Huberman, HP Labs, USA
Matthew Hudson, The University of York, UK
Scott Hudson, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
David Huffaker, Google, USA
Amanda Hughes, Utah State University, USA

(Return to Top)

20 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

Julie Hui, Northwestern University, USA
Alina Huldtgren, Delft University of Technology, Germany
Jessica Hullman, University of Michigan, USA
Shah Rukh Humayoun, University of Kaiserslautern, Germany
Seth Hunter, MIT Media Lab, USA
Stephane Huot, Université Paris-Sud, France
Annika Hupfeld, University of Nottingham, UK
Amy Hurst, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Wolfgang Hürst, Utrecht University, The Netherlands
Christophe Hurter, University of Toulouse, France
Heinrich Hussmann, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Germany
Dugald Hutchings, Elon University, USA
John Hutchinson, Lancaster University, UK
C.j. Hutto, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Luke Hutton, University of St Andrews, UK
Ebba Thora Hvannberg, University of Iceland, Iceland
Inseok Hwang, KAIST, South Korea
Sungjae Hwang, KAIST, South Korea
Aulikki Hyrskykari, University of Tampere, Finland
Ioanna Iacovides, UCL, UK
Djilali Idoughi, University A. Mira of Bejaia, Algeria
Takeo Igarashi, The University of Tokyo, Japan
Klas Ihme, University of Leipzig, Germany
Masahiko Inami, KMD, Japan
Todd Ingalls, Arizona State University, USA
Stephen Intille, Northeastern University, USA
Alexandra Ion, University of Applied Sciences Upper KAIST, Republic of Korea ria,
Austria
Iulia Ion, Google, USA
Panos Ipeirotis, New York University, New York
Shamsi Iqbal, Microsoft Research, USA
Ellen Isaacs, PARC, USA
Katherine Isbister, Polytechnic Institute of New York University, USA
Tobias Isenberg, INRIA, France
Kentaro Ishii, The University of Tokyo, Japan
Poika Isokoski, University of Tampere, Finland
Ali Israr, Disney Research, USA
Howell Istance, De Montfort University, UK
Yuichi Itoh, Osaka University, Japan
Bret Jackson, University of New Mexico, USA
Daniel Jackson, Newcastle University, UK
Steven Jackson, Cornell University, USA
Tanner Jackson, Princeton, USA
Robert Jacob, Tufts University, USA
Mattias Jacobsson, Mobile Life @ SICS, Sweden
Nassim Jafarinaimi, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Nils Jäger, University of Nottingham, UK
Mohit Jain, University of Toronto, Canada
Sharad Jaiswal, Bell Labs India, India
Timo Jakobi, University of Siegen, Germany
Mikkel Jakobsen, University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Hamid R. Jamali, Kharazmi University, Iran
Anthony Jameson, German Research Center for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI),
Germany
Jacek Jankowski, Digital Enterprise Research Institute, France

21 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

Maddy Janse, Philips Research, The Netherlands
Bernard Jansen, The Pennsylvania State University, USA
Yvonne Jansen, Université Paris-Sud, France
Christian Janssen, Smith-Kettlewell Eye Research Institute, USA
Joris Janssen, Eindhoven University of Technology, The Netherlands
Ryan Janzen, University of Toronto, Canada
Tim Jay, University of Bristol, UK
K. Neil Jenkings, Newcastle University, UK
Tom Jenkins, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Carlos Jensen, Oregon State University, USA
Jennifer Jenson, York University, Canada
Seokhee Jeon, ETH Zurich, Switzerland
Jin-Woo Jeong, Hanyang University, Republic of Korea
Hans-Christian Jetter, University of Konstanz, UK
Jiepu Jiang, University of Massachusetts Amherst, USA
Nan Jiang, Bournemouth University, UK
Marina Jirotka, University of Oxford, UK
Kazuhiro Jo, IAMAS, Japan
Bonnie John, IBM Research, USA
Andrew Johnson, University of Illinois at Chicago, USA
Gabe Johnson, Blank Slate Systems, USA
Jeff Johnson, UI Wizards, USA
Kimberly Johnson, Google, USA
Maritza Johnson, University of California, USA
Mikael Johnson, Helsinki University of Technology, Finland
Steven Johnson, Temple U., USA
Aditya Johri, Virginia Tech, USA
Tero Jokela, Nokia Research Center, Finland
Brett Jones, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA
J. Adam Jones, University of Southern California, USA
Malcolm Jones, Northumbria University, UK
Matt Jones, Swansea University, Wales, UK
Steve Jones, University of Waikato, New Zealand
William Jones, University of Washington, USA
Martin Jonsson, Södertörn University, Sweden
Sergi Jorda, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Spain
Joaquim Jorge, INESC-ID, Portugal
Rui Jose, Universidade do Minho, Portugal
Anirudha Joshi, Indian Institute of Technology, India
Neel Joshi, Microsoft, USA
Ricardo Jota, University of Toronto, Portugal
M.-Carmen Juan, UPV, Spain
Oskar Juhlin, Mobile Life @ Stockholm University, Sweden
Satu Jumisko-Pyykkö, Tampere University of Technology, Finland
Heekyoung Jung, University of Cincinnati, USA
Malte Jung, Cornell University, USA
Tzyy-Ping Jung, UCSD, USA
Yumi Jung, Michigan State University, USA
Beyerer Jürgen, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), Germany
Marko Jurmu, University of Oulu, Finland
Mike Just, Glasgow Caledonian University, UK
Antti Jylhä, University of Helsinki, Finland
Dennis Kafura, Virginia Tech, USA
Anne Kaikkonen, Nokia Corporation, Finland
Sanjay Kairam, Stanford University, USA

22 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

Yasuaki Kakehi, Keio University, Japan
Matthew Kam, American Institutes for Research, USA
Noreen Kamal, University of British Columbia, Canada
Alexander Kan, The University of Melbourne, Australia
Sean Kandel, Stanford University, USA
Eser Kandogan, IBM, USA
Bridget Kane, Trinity College Dublin, Ireland
Shaun Kane, University of Maryland Baltimore County, USA
Ruogu Kang, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Marije Kanis, Brunel University, UK
Gopinaath Kannabiran, Indiana University, USA
Anne Marie Kanstrup, Aalborg University, Denmark
Ashish Kapoor, Microsoft Research, USA
Dennis Kappen, University of Ontario Institute of Technology, Canada
Evangelos Kapros, Trinity College Dublin, Ireland
Maurits Kaptein, Eindhoven University of Technology, The Netherlands
Victor Kaptelinin, Umeå University, Sweden
Mustafa Karagozler, Disney Research, USA
Karrie Karahalios, University of Illinois, USA
Amela Karahasanovic, SINTEF ICT, Norway
John Karat, IBM Research - T. J. Watson, USA
David Karger, MIT, USA
Thorsten Karrer, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Christos Katsanos, Hellenic Open University, Greece
Brian Katz, LIMSI-CNRS, France
Larry Katz, University of Calgary, Canada
Andrea Kavanaugh, Virginia Tech, USA
Fahim Kawsar, Phd Candidate, Japan
Matthew Kay, University of Waterloo, Canada
Joseph 'jofish' Kaye, Nokia, USA
Gabriella Kazai, Microsoft Research, UK
Konstantinos Kazakos, Newcastle University, UK
Rubaiat Habib Kazi, National University of Singapore, Canada
Elizabeth Kaziunas, University of Michigan, USA
Wendy Keay-Bright, University of Wales Institute, Wales, UK
Daniel Keefe, University of Minnesota, USA
Brian Keegan, Northeastern University, USA
Flavius Kehr, University of Koblenz-Landau, Germany
Caitlin Kelleher, Washington University, USA
Wendy Kellogg, IBM Research - T. J. Watson, USA
Diane Kelly, University of North Carolina, USA
Ryan Kelly, University of Bath, UK
Logan Kendall, University of Washington, USA
Denisa Kera, National University of Singapore, Singapore
Dagmar Kern, Bertrandt Ingenieurbüro Gmbh, Germany
Andruid Kerne, Texas A&M University, USA
Andreas Kerren, Linnaeus University, Sweden
Karina Kervin, University of Michigan, USA
Cem Keskin, Microsoft Research, UK
Rilla Khaled, University of Malta, Malta
Mohammadreza Khalilbeigi, Darmstadt University of Technology, Germany
Vassilis-Javed Khan, NHTV Breda University of Applied Sciences, The Netherlands
Ahmed Kharrufa, Newcastle University, UK
Rohit Khot, RMIT University, Australia
Vera Khovanskaya, Cornell University, USA

23 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

Emre Kiciman, Microsoft Research, USA
Wolf Kienzle, Microsoft Research, USA
Johan Kildal, Nokia, Finland
Dongwhan Kim, Seoul National University, Republic of Korea
Hyang-Sook Kim, St. Norbert's College, USA
Hyung Nam Kim, Northwestern University, USA
Joy Kim, Stanford University, USA
Juho Kim, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Ju-Whan Kim, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Kibum Kim, Kochi University of Technology, Japan
Seung Wook Kim, Samsung R&D Center Silicon Valley, USA
Seungjun Kim, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Si Jung Kim, University of Central Florida, USA
Sung-Hee Kim, Purdue University, USA
Sunyoung Kim, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Taemie Kim, Sociometric Solutions, USA
Kenrick Kin, University of California, USA
Jennifer King, University of California, USA
Michael Kipp, Augsburg University of Applied Sciences, Germany
Reuben Kirkham, Nottingham University, England
Iacovos Kirlappos, University College London, UK
Alex Kirlik, University of Illinois at Urbana, USA
Ben Kirman, University of Lincoln, UK
Paul Kirschner, Open Universiteit, Nederland
David Kirsh, University of California, USA
Christopher Kirwan, Parsons The New School for Design, USA
Yoshifumi Kitamura, Tohoku University, Japan
Kris Kitani, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Aniket Kittur, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Funda Kivran-Swaine, Rutgers University, USA
René Kizilcec, Stanford University, USA
Scott Klemmer, UC San Diego, USA
Jayne Klenner, King's College, USA
Clemens Klokmose, Aarhus University, Denmark
Eric Klopfer, MIT, USA
Jarrod Knibbe, University of Bristol, UK
Bart Knijnenburg, University of California, The Netherlands
Cory Knobel, University of California, USA
Hendrik Knoche, EPFL, Switzerland
Bran Knowles, Lancaster University, UK
Masatomo Kobayashi, IBM Research - Tokyo, Japan
Michael Koch, Bundeswehr University Munich, Germany
Kenneth Koedinger, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Lone Koefoed Hansen, Aarhus University, Denmark
Christian Koehler, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Hyunseung Koh, Indiana University, USA
Kyle Koh, Seoul National University, South Korea
Hideki Koike, University of Electro-Communications, Japan
Mario Kolberg, University of Stirling, UK
Boriana Koleva, The University of Nottingham, UK
Beth Kolko, University of Washington, USA
Jon Kolko, Frog Design, USA
Thomas Költringer, Ventum Consulting, Austria
Steven Komarov, Harvard University, USA
Anita Komlodi, University of Maryland, USA

24 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Andreas Komninos, University of Strathclyde, UK
Joseph Konstan, University of Minnesota, USA
Matthias Korn, Aarhus University, Denmark
Oliver Korn, University of Applied Sciences Esslingen, Germany
Gerd Kortuem, The Open University, UK
Robert Kosara, Tableau Software, USA
Timothy Koschmann, Southern Illinois University, USA
Ilpo Koskinen, University of Art and Design Helsinki, Finland
Vassilis Kostakos, University of Oulu, Finland
Ilkka Kosunen, University of Helsinki, Finland
Theodora Koulouri, Brunel University,
Matthias Kovatsch, ETH Zurich, Switzerland
Yong Ming Kow, University of California Irvine, Hong Kong Sar
Nicole Kraemer, University of Duisburg-Essen,
Adam Kramer, Facebook, USA
Jan-Peter Krämer, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Matthias Kranz, University of Passau, Germany
Sven Kratz, University of Munich, Germany
Robert Kraut, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Christian Kray, University of Münster, Germany
Shivsubramani Krishnamoorthy, Amrita University, USA
Ernst Kruijff, Graz University of Technology, Austria
John Krumm, Microsoft Research, USA
Erin Krupka, University of Michigan, USA
Ravi Kuber, UMBC, USA
Sebastien Kubicki, CERV - Centre Européen de Réalité Virtuelle, France
Alex Kuhn, University of Michigan, USA
Kai Kuikkaniemi, Helsinki Institute for Information Technology HIIT, Finland
Sari Kujala, Aalto University, Finland
Tuomo Kujala, University of Jyväskylä, Finland
Hannu Kukka, University of Oulu, Finland
Anand Kulkarni, University of California, USA
Chinmay Kulkarni, Stanford University, USA
Anuj Kumar, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Arun Kumar, IBM Research, India
Neha Kumar, University of California, USA
Ranjitha Kumar, Stanford University, USA
Santosh Kumar, University of Memphis, USA
Ponnurangam Kumaraguru, IIIT-Delhi, India
Andrew Kun, University of New Hampshire, USA
Andreas Kunz, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich, Switzerland
Kai Kunze, Osaka Prefecture University, Japan
Liisa Kuparinen, University of Jyväskylä, Finland
Sri Kurniawan, University of California, USA
Gordon Kurtenbach, Autodesk, Canada
Arma an Kuru, Middle East Technical University, Turkey
Raja Kushalnagar, Rochester Institute of Technology, USA
Diana Kusunoki, Drexel University, USA
Kari Kuutti, University of Oulu, Finland
Stacey Kuznetsov, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Youngshin Kwak, Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology, South Korea
Bum Chul Kwon, University of Konstanz, Germany
Gyu Hyun Kwon, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, USA
Jarmo Laaksolahti, Swedish Institute of Computer Science, Sweden
Richard Ladner, University of Washington, USA

(Return to Top)

25 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Ben Lafreniere, University of Waterloo, Canada
Carl Lagoze, University of Michigan, USA
Susan Lai, San Jose Gateway, Canada
Denis Lalanne, University of Fribourg, Switzerland
Mary Lalomia, Philips Medical, USA
Shyong Lam, Google, USA
Anthony Lamarca, Intel Research Seattle, USA
Kristin Lamberty, University of Minnesota, USA
Cliff Lampe, University of Michigan, USA
Airi Lampinen, Helsinki Institute for Information Technology HIIT, Finland
James Landay, University of Washington, USA
Richard Landers, Old Dominion University, USA
Monica Landoni, University of Lugano, Switzerland
Pascal Landry, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Spain
Steven Landry, Purdue University, USA
Peter Landwehr, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Nicholas Lane, Microsoft, China
Patrick Langdon, University of Cambridge, UK
Marc Langheinrich, Università Della Svizzera Italiana, Switzerland
Joel Lanir, University of Haifa, Israel
Edward Lank, University of Waterloo, Canada
Rosa Lanzillotti, Università di Bari, Italy
Astrid Larssen, Ashesi University College, Ghana
Walter Lasecki, University of Rochester Computer Science, USA
Nancy Latham, Boston University School of Public Health, USA
Thomas Latoza, UC Irvine, USA
Celine Latulipe, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, USA
Manfred Lau, Lancaster University, UK
Felix Lauber, University of Munich, Germany
Carolyn Lauckner, Michigan State University, USA
Gael Laurans, Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands
Eric Laurier, University of Edinburgh, UK
Yann Laurillau, University of Grenoble, France
Debra Lauterbach, Google, USA
Joseph Laviola Jr., University of Central Florida, USA
Joseph Lawrance, Oregon State University, USA
Shaun Lawson, University of Lincoln, UK
Shawn Lawson, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, USA
Amanda Lazar, University of Washington, USA
Jonathan Lazar, Towson University, USA
Marco Lazzari, University of Bergamo, Italy
Lucian Leahu, SICS, Sweden
Alex Leavitt, University of Southern California, USA
Eric Lecolinet, Télécom-Paristech, France
Kerstin Leder Mackley, Loughborough University, UK
David Ledo, University of Calgary, Canada
Bongshin Lee, Microsoft Research, USA
Charlotte Lee, University of Washington, USA
Geehyuk Lee, KAIST, Korea
Joon Suk Lee, Virginia Tech, USA
Joyce Lee, University of Michigan, USA
Matthew Lee, Philips Research, USA
Michael Lee, University of Washington, USA
Min Kyung Lee, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Stephanie Lee, University of Washington, USA

26 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

Uichin Lee, KAIST, South Korea
Young Lee, Motorola Research, USA
Colby Leider, University of Miami, USA
Darren Leigh, USA
Iolanda Leite, Instituto Superior Técnico, Portugal
Daniel Leithinger, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Luis A. Leiva, Universitat Politècnica de València, Spain
Eva Lenz, Folkwang University of the Arts, Germany
Pedro Leon, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Chiara Leonardi, Fondazione Bruno Kessler, Italy
Stefania Leone, University of South Carolina, USA
Tuck Leong, University of Technology, Australia
George Lepouras, University of Peloponnese, Greece
Gilly Leshed, Cornell University, USA
Catherine Letondal, ENAC, France
Rock Leung, University of British Columbia, Canada
Vincent Levesque, Immersion, Canada
Peter Levin, Intel Corporation, USA
Vincent Lewandowski, KTH, Sweden
Clayton Lewis, University of Colorado, USA
Caroline Leygue, University of Nottingham, UK
Ian Li, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Karen Li
Na Li, Pennsylvania State University, USA
Nan Li, EPFL, Switzerland
Wei Li, Autodesk Research, Canada
Hai-Ning Liang, Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University, China
Rung-Huei Liang, National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, Taiwan
(r.o.c.)
Fotis Liarokapis, Coventry University, UK
Ilaria Liccardi, INRIA Paris, France
Henry Lieberman, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Michael Liegl, Lancaster University, UK
Ann Light, Northumbria University, UK
Lassi Liikkanen, Helsinki Institute for Information Technology HIIT, Finland
Brian Lim, Fraunhofer Center for Sustainable Energy Systems, USA
Sohye Lim, Ewha Womans University, Republic of Korea
James Lin, Google, USA
Jialiu Lin, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Min Lin, Samsung Electronics, P. R. China
Per Linde, Malmö University,
Robert Lindeman, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, USA
Rhema Linder, Texas A&M University, USA
Gitte Lindgaard, Carleton University, Canada
Siân Lindley, Microsoft Research, UK
Janne Lindqvist, Rutgers University, USA
Stephen Lindsay, Swansea University, Wales, UK
Conor Linehan, University of Lincoln, UK
Jessica Lingel, Microsoft Research, USA
Heather Lipford, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, USA
Roman Lissermann, Technische Universität Darmstadt, Germany
Eden Litt, Northwestern University, USA
Greg Little, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Linda Little, Northumbria University, UK
Jin Liu, Cornell University, USA

27 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Leslie Liu, University of Washington, USA
Tracy Liu, University of Michigan, USA
Wei Liu, Delft University of Technology, Netherlands
Yefeng Liu, Waseda University, Japan
Ying Liu, Charles Sturt University, Australia
Ying Hsang Liu, Intel, China
Yun-En Liu, University of Washington, USA
Zhicheng Liu, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Mark Livingston, Naval Research Laboratory, USA
Avishay Livne, The University of Michigan, USA
Sara Ljungblad, LOTS Design AB, Sweden
Markus Löchtefeld, German Research Center for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI),
Germany
Dan Lockton, University of Warwick, UK
Thomas Lodato, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Courtney Loder, UC Irvine, USA
Sebastian Loehmann, University of Munich, Germany
Steffen Lohmann, University of Stuttgart, Germany
Benjamin Lok, University of Florida, USA
Lian Loke, University of Sydney, Australia
Derek Lomas, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Benjamin Long, Bristol University, UK
Kiel Long, Lancaster University, England, UK
Chee Kit Looi, NTU, Singapore
Jack Loomis, UCSB, USA
Arminda Lopes, Instituto Politecnico de Castelo Branco, Portugal
Pedro Lopes, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Fabien Lotte, INRIA Bordeaux Sud-Ouest, France
Danielle Lottridge, San Francisco State University, USA
Sandy Louchart, Heriot-Watt University, Scotland, UK
Oriana J Love, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, USA
Hao Lu, Intel, USA
Hong Lu, IBM Research, USA
Jie Lu, Samsung, USA
Mei Lu, CUNY Graduate Center, USA
Pengfei Lu, Fudan University, USA
Tun Lu, University of Washington, China
Hao Lü, Google, USA
Andrés Lucero, Nokia Research Center, Finland
Bernd Ludwig, University of Regensburg, Germany
Patrick Lühne, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Rowena Luk, AMITA Telemedicine, Canada
Kristian Lukander, Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, Finland
Jonathan Lukens, University of Tennessee, USA
Stephan Lukosch, Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands
Jay Lundell, Intel Research, USA
Kurt Luther, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Wayne Lutters, UMBC, USA
Marianne Lykke, Aalborg University, Denmark
Peter Lyle, Queensland University of Technology, Australia
Leilah Lyons, University of Illinois at Chicago, USA
Michael Lyons, Ritsumeikan University, Japan
Heikki Lyytinen, University of Jyväskylä, Finland
Xiaojuan Ma, Noah's Ark Lab, Hong Kong, China
Catriona Macaulay, University of Dundee, UK

(Return to Top)

28 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Craig Macdonald, Pratt Institute, USA
Carolyn Macgregor, University of Waterloo, Canada
Cristiano Maciel, Universidade Federal de Mato Grosso, Brazil
Giuliano Maciocci, Qualcomm Research Cambridge, UK
Wendy Mackay, INRIA, France
Scott Mackenzie, York University, Canada
Allan Maclean, Image Semantics Ltd, UK
Karon Maclean, University of British Columbia, Canada
Christopher Maclellan, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Andrew Macvean, Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh
Rui Madeira, ESTSetúbal/IPS, Portugal
Pattie Maes, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Rachel Magee, Drexel University, USA
Charlotte Magnusson, Lund University, Sweden
Mary Lou Maher, University of Sydney, Australia
Jalal Mahmud, IBM Research - Almaden, USA
Nasim Mahmud, Hasselt University - Tul - IBBT, Belgium
Angela Mahr, German Research Center for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI), Germany
Scott Mainwaring, Intel Research, USA
Julie Maitland, Populus Global Solutions Inc., Canada
Päivi Majaranta, University of Tampere, Finland
Yasutoshi Makino, Keio University, Japan
Sylvain Malacria, University of Canterbury, France
Miguel Malheiros, University College London, UK
Alessio Malizia, University 'la Sapienza' of Rome, Italy
Lone Malmborg, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Lena Mamykina, Columbia University, USA
Hiroyuki Manabe, NTT DOCOMO, Japan
Clara Mancini, The Open University, UK
Regan Mandryk, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Jennifer Mankoff, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Daniela Mapelli, Università di Padoa,
Valérie Maquil, Public Research Center Henri Tudor, Luxembourg
Gabriela Marcu, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Adam Marcus, MIT CSAIL, USA
Georgios Marentakis, Institute for Electronic Music and Acoustics - Graz, Austria
Gloria Mark, University of California, USA
Anders Markussen, University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Thomas Markussen, Kolding School of Design, Denmark
Jennifer Marlow, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Elena Márquez Segura, Uppsala University, Sweden
Gary Marsden, University of Cape Town, South Africa
Andrea Marshall, Drexel University Ischool, USA
Catherine Marshall, Microsoft, USA
Joe Marshall, University of Nottingham, UK
Mark Marshall, Sheffield Hallam University, UK
Stuart Marshall, Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand
Jean-Bernard Martens, Eindhoven University of Technology, The Netherlands
Stefan Marti, Harman International, USA
Anna Lisa Martin, Zurich University of the Arts, Switzerland
Aqueasha Martin, Clemson University, USA
Benoît Martin, Université de Lorraine, France
David Martin, Xerox Research Center Europe, France
Taylor Martin, USU, USA
Sarah Martindale, The University of Nottingham, UK

(Return to Top)

29 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Diego Martinez Plasencia, University of Bristol, UK
Célia Martinie, University Toulouse 3, France
Misa Maruyama, University of Hawaii at Manoa, USA
Sergio Mascetti, University of Milan, Italy
Afra Mashhadi, Alcatel-Lucent, Ireland
Mikhil Masli, Grouplens Research, USA
Winter Mason, Stevens Institute of Technology, USA
Justin Matejka, Autodesk, Canada
Anijo Mathew, Illinois Institute of Technology, USA
Akhil Mathur, University of Toronto, Canada
Ben Matthews, The University of Queensland, Australia
Mark Matthews, Cornell University, USA
Tara Matthews, IBM Research - Almaden, USA
Denys Matthies, University of Munich, Germany
Frank Maurer, University of Calgary, Canada
Max-Emanuel Maurer, University of Munich, Germany
Deborah Maxwell, University of Edinburgh, UK
Aaron May, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Simon Mayer, ETH Zurich, Switzerland
Christopher Mayhorn, North Carolina State University, USA
Walterio Mayol-Cuevas, University of Bristol, UK
Oscar Mayora, ITESM Cuernavaca, Mexico
Rene Mayrhofer, Lancaster University, UK
Ali Mazalek, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Melissa Mazmanian, University of California, USA
Michelle Mazurek, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Emanuela Mazzone, University of Central Lancashire, Spain
Victoria Mcarthur, York University, Canada
Simon Mccallum, Gjøvik University College, Norway
John Mccarthy, University College Cork, Ireland
Scott Mccrickard, Virginia Tech, USA
Sean Mcdirmid, Microsoft Advanced Technology Center, Peoples Republic of China
David Mcdonald, University of Washington, USA
Nora Mcdonald, Drexel University, USA
Mary F Mcdonough
Daniel Mcduff, MIT Media Lab, USA
Gregor Mcewan, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Daniel Mcfarlane, Lockheed Martin Advanced Technology Laboratories, USA
Kevin Mcgee, National University of Singapore, Singapore
Mark Mcgill, University of Glasgow, UK
William Mcgrath, Stanford University, USA
Joanna Mcgrenere, University of British Columbia, Canada
Michael Mcguffin, École de Technologie Supérieure, Canada
Ross Mclachlan, University of Glasgow, Scotland, UK
Ryan Mcmahan, University of Texas at Dallas, USA
Donald Mcmillan, SICS, Sweden
Indrani Medhi-Thies, Microsoft Research, India
Richard Medland, Queensland University of Technology, Australia
Ben Medler, EA, USA
Elisa Mekler, University of Basel, Switzerland
Volkamer Melanie, TU Darmstadt, Germany
David Mellis, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Gustavo Mello Machado, University of Stuttgart, Germany
Nemanja Memarovic, Universita Della Svizzera Italiana, Switzerland

30 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

Maria Menendez, University of Trento, Italy
Sarah Mennicken, University of Zurich, Switzerland
Rachel Menzies, University of Dundee, UK
Emma Mercier, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA
David Merrill, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Ronald Metoyer, Oregon State University, USA
Johanna Meurer, University, Germany
Jochen Meyer, OFFIS - Institute for Information Technology, Germany
Miriah Meyer, University of Utah, USA
Haipeng Mi, Tsinghua University, China
Nicholas Micallef, Glasgow Caledonian University, UK
Martin Mihajlov, Ss. Cyril and Methodius University, Macedonia
Silvia Miksch, Vienna University of Technology, Austria
David Millen, IBM Research, USA
Andrew Miller, University of British Columbia, USA
Gregor Miller, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Canada
Scarlett Miller (herring), Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Michael Minge, Berlin University of Technology, Germany
Aliaksei Miniukovich, University of Trento, Italy
Andrea Minuto, University of Twente, The Netherlands
Pejman Mirza-Babaei, University of Ontario Institute of Technology, Canada
Sonali Mishra, University of Michigan, USA
Taniya Mishra, AT&T, USA
Alex Mitchell, National University of Singapore, Singapore
Tanushree Mitra, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Tracy Mitzner, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Takahiro Miura, The University of Tokyo, Japan
Takashi Miyaki, Inria, France
Bart Moens, Ghent University, Belgium
Andrew Molineux, Lancaster University, England
Andreas Möller, Technische Universität München, Germany
Max Möllers, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
David Molyneaux, Microsoft Research, England, UK
Arthur Money, Brunel University, UK
Andrew Monk, University of York, UK
Andres Monroy-Hernandez, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Toni-Jan Keith Monserrat, National University of Singapore, Philippines
Kyle Montague, University of Dundee, Scotland, UK
Bob Moore, PARC, USA
Simone Mora, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Norway
Stuart Moran, University of Nottingham, UK
Neema Moraveji, Microsoft Research Asia, China
Guillaume Moreau, Ecole Centrale de Nantes, France
Lourdes Moreno, Universidad Carlos III de Madrid, Spain
Jonathan Morgan, University of Washington, USA
Giulio Mori, ISTI-CNR, Italy
Joji Mori, The University of Melbourne, Australia
Carlos Morimoto, University of Sao Paulo, Brazil
Janine Morley, Lancaster University, UK
Fabio Morreale, University of Trento, Italy
Patricia Morreale, Kean University, USA
Margaret Morris, Intel Corporation, USA
Meredith Morris, Microsoft Research, USA
Ann Morrison, Aalborg University, Denmark
Cecily Morrison, Microsoft Research, UK

31 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

Richard Mortier, The University of Nottingham, UK
Lee Morton, Glasgow Caledonian University, UK
Christiane Moser, ICT&S Center, Austria
Vicki Moulder, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Christos Mousas, University of Sussex, England, UK
Mu Mu, Lancaster University, UK
Omar Mubin, University of Western Sydney, Australia
Christian Muehl, Inria Bordeaux, France
Florian "Floyd" Mueller, Exertion Games Lab, Australia
Stefanie Mueller, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Christian Mueller-Tomfelde, CSIRO ICT Centre, Australia
Max Mühlhäuser, TU Darmstadt, Germany
Adiyan Mujibiya, The University of Tokyo, Japan
Heiko Müller, IBM Research, Germany
Gernot Müller-Putz, Graz University of Technology, Austria
Alessandro Mulloni, Qualcomm Research KAIST, Republic of Korea ria, Austria
Cosmin Munteanu, National Research Council Canada, Canada
Helmut Munz, RMIT University, Austria
Martin Murer, University of Salzburg, Austria
Dianne Murray, Indep. Consultant, UK
Ildar Muslukhov, University of British Columbia, Canada
Mirco Musolesi, University of Birmingham, UK
Brad Myers, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Elizabeth Mynatt, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Mor Naaman, Cornell University, USA
Miguel Nacenta, University of St Andrews, UK
Frank Nack, University of Amsterdam (uva), The Netherlands
Till Nagel, University of Applied Sciences Potsdam, Germany
Tobias Nägeli, ETH Zurich, Switzerland
Hideyuki Nakanishi, Osaka University, Japan
Kevin Nam, University of Michigan, USA
Suranga Nanayakkara, Singapore University of Technology and Design, USA
Mathieu Nancel, University of Canterbury, France
Nitya Narasimhan, edupreneur, USA
Bonnie Nardi, University of California, USA
Amani Naseem, RMIT University, Australia
Chris Nash, University of Cambridge, UK
Meena Natarajan, UC Berkeley, USA
Lisa Nathan, University of British Columbia, Canada
David Navarre, IRIT, France
Elena Nazzi, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Mark Neerincx, TNO Human Factors, Netherlands
Michael Neff, UC Davis, USA
Paolo Negri
Matei Negulescu, University of Waterloo, Canada
Matti Nelimarkka, Helsinki Institute for Information Technology HIIT, Finland
Les Nelson, PARC, USA
Cornelius Neufeldt, University of Siegen, Germany
Alena Neviarouskaya, University of Tokyo, Japan
Alan Newell, Dundee University, Scotland, UK
Mark Newman, University of Michigan, USA
Victor Ng-Thow-Hing, Honda Research Institute USA, USA
David Nguyen, Nokia Research Center, USA
Duyen Nguyen, Cornell University, USA
James Nicholson, Northumbria University, England, UK

32 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

Hugo Nicolau, University of Dundee, UK
Lene Nielsen, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Gerrit Niezen, Swansea University, UK
Femke Nijboer, University of Twente, The Netherlands
Valentina Nisi, University of Madeira, Portugal
Xi Niu, Indiana University, USA
Sylvie Noël, Universita di Trento, Italy
Pedro Nogueira, LIACC - Artificial Intelligence and Computer Science Laboratory,
Portugal
A. Imran Nordin, University of York, UK
Mie Nørgaard, Aarhus School of Architecture, Denmark
Francesco Nori
Maria Normark, Södertörn University, Sweden
Lauren Norrie, University of Glasgow, Scotland, UK
Chris North, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, USA
Oded Nov, Polytechnic Institute of New York University, USA
Laurie Novak, Vanderbilt University, USA
Francisco Nunes, Vienna University of Technology, Austria
Petteri Nurmi, Helsinki Institute for Information Technology HIIT, Finland
Andreas Nürnberger, Otto-Von-Guericke-University Magdeburg, Germany
Stina Nylander, Swedish Institute of Computer Science, Sweden
Heather O'brien, University of British Columbia, Canada
Marita O'brien, University of Alabama-Huntsville, USA
Brendan O'connor, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Lora Oehlberg, INRIA, USA
Anne Oeldorf-Hirsch, University of Connecticut, USA
Eyal Ofek, Microsoft Research, USA
Corinna Ogonowski, University of Siegen, Germany
Alice Oh, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Jonghwan Oh, Seoul National University, Republic of Korea
Kenton O'hara, Microsoft Research, UK
Harri Oinas-Kukkonen, University of Oulu, Finland
Aisling O'kane, University College London, UK
Bugra Oktay, University of Nevada, USA
Patrick Oladimeji, Swansea University, UK
Halla Olafsdottir, Université Paris-Sud, France
Erica Olmsted-Hawala, U.S. Census Bureau, USA
Dan Olsen, Brigham Young University, USA
Gary Olson, University of California, USA
Judith Olson, U of Michigan, USA
Katherine Olson, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Thomas Olsson, Tampere University of Technology, Finland
Sile O'modhrain, University of Michigan, USA
Jacki O'neill, XRCE, France
Stephen Oney, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Wei Tsang Ooi, National University of Singapore, Singapore
Elisa Oreglia, University of California Berkeley, USA
Tihomir Orehovacki, University of Zagreb, Croatia
Eleanor O'rourke, University of Washington, USA
Valeria Orso, University of Padova, Italy
Martin Ortlieb, Google, Switzerland
Keith Ostfeld, Children's Museum of Houston, USA
Nuno Otero, Linnæus University, Sweden
Tom Ouyang, MIT, USA
Derya Özçelik, Eindhoven University of Technology, The Netherlands

33 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Jeni Paay, Aalborg University, Denmark
Tyler Pace, Indiana University Bloomington, USA
Tim Paek, Microsoft Research, USA
Michel Pahud, Microsoft Research, USA
Helen Pain, University of Edinburgh, UK
Drew Paine, University of Washington, USA
Aditya Pal, IBM Research - Almaden, USA
Philippe Palanque, ICS-IRIT, France
Leysia Palen, University of Colorado, USA
Henri Palleis, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Germany
Susan Palmiter, Design Technologies, USA
Viktoria Pammer, Know-Center, Austria
Yingxin Pan, IBM Research - China, China
Yue Pan, Indiana University Bloomington, USA
Zhengzheng Pan, Facebook, USA
Katherine Panciera, University of Minnesota, USA
Sabrina Panëels, McGill University, France
Carolyn Pang, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Saurabh Panjwani, Microsoft Research India, India
Katrina Panovich, MIT, USA
Nadia Pantidi, The University of Nottingham, UK
Caroline Pantofaru, Willow Garage, USA
Eleftherios Papachristos, University of Patras, Greece
Savvas Papaioannou, University of Oxford, UK
Joseph Paradiso, MIT Media Laboratory, USA
Aditya Parameswaran, Stanford University, USA
Zachary Pardos, UC Berkeley, USA
Pablo Paredes, University of Berkeley, USA
Narcis Pares, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Spain
Tapan Parikh, UC Berkeley, USA
Minsu Park, KAIST, South Korea
Souneil Park, Univ. of Michigan, USA
Sun Young Park, University of California, USA
Taiwoo Park, KAIST, South Korea
Young-Woo Park, KAIST, South Korea
Chris Parnin, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Kurt Partridge, Google, USA
Gaurav Paruthi, University of Michigan, USA
Marco Pasch, University of Lugano, Switzerland
Gert Pasman, Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands
Jerome Pasquero, Research In Motion Limited, Canada
Kayur Patel, University of Washington, USA
Nirmal Patel, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Rupa Patel, University of Washington, USA
Rupal Patel, Northeastern University, USA
Shwetak Patel, University of Washington, USA
Jessica Pater, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Andrew Patrick, Carleton University, Canada
Donald Patterson, University of California Irvine, USA
Sharoda Paul, GE Global Research, USA
Eric Paulos, University of California, USA
Dana Pavel, University of Essex, UK
Ioannis Pavlidis, University of Houston, USA
Andriy Pavlovych, York University, Canada
Stephen Payne, University of Bath, UK

34 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Jennifer Pearson, Swansea University, UK
Fabrizio Pece, University College London, UK
Evan Peck, Tufts University, USA
Sonja Pedell, Swinburne University of Technology, Australia
Sonjs Pedell, Swinburne University of Technology, Australia
Esben Pedersen, University of Copenhagen, Danmark
Thomas Pederson, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Peter Peltonen, University of Helsinki, Finland
Jorge Peña, University of California, USA
Wei Peng, Information Studies, USA
Gerald Penn, University of Toronto, Canada
Kylie Peppler, Indiana University, USA
Lucas Pereira, Madeira Interactive Technologies Institute, Portugal
Adam Perer, IBM Research, USA
Manuel Perez-Quinones, Virginia Tech, USA
Charles Perin, INRIA Saclay, France
Trevor Pering, Intel Research, USA
Ken Perlin, New York University, USA
Simon Perrault, National University of Singapore, Singapore
Daniel Perry, University of Washington, USA
Florian Perteneder, University of Applied Sciences Upper KAIST, Republic of Korea ria,
Austria
Marianne Graves Petersen, Aarhus University, Denmark
Daniela Petrelli, Sheffield Hallam University, UK
Helen Petrie, University of York, UK
Tamara Peyton, Penn State University, USA
Laura Pfeifer Vardoulakis, Google, USA
Max Pfeiffer, Leibniz Universität Hannover, Germany
Thies Pfeiffer, Bielefeld University, Germany
Bastian Pfleging, University of Stuttgart, Germany
Martin Pielot, Telefonica Research, Spain
James Pierce, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Jeffrey Pierce, Samsung UX Innovations Lab, USA
Emmanuel Pietriga, INRIA, France
Mary Pietrowicz, National Center for Supercomputing Applications, USA
Thomas Pietrzak, University of Lille, France
Hannah Pileggi, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Clément Pillias, CNAM, France
Laura Pina, 'UCSD' As In University of California at San Diego, USA
Fabiano Pinatti, Institute of Design and Assessment of Technology, Austria
Kathleen Pine, University of California, USA
Claudio Pinhanez, IBM Brazil, Brazil
Volkmar Pipek, University of Siegen, Germany
Anne Marie Piper, Northwestern University, USA
Michael Pirker, Ruwido KAIST, Republic of Korea ria Gmbh, Austria
Peter Pirolli, PARC, USA
Catherine Plaisant, University of Maryland, USA
Andreas Pleuss, University of Limerick, Ireland
Bernd Ploderer, The University of Melbourne, Australia
Thomas Ploetz, Newcastle University, UK
Barry Po, HSBC, Canada
Henning Pohl, University of Hannover, Germany
Margit Pohl, Vienna University of Technology, Austria
Anna Pohlmeyer, Delft University of Technology, Netherlands
Ioannis Politis, Eindhoven University of Technology, Netherlands

35 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

John Pollak, Cornell University, USA
Marc Pomplun, University of Massachusetts Boston, USA
Heather Pon-Barry, Informatics, USA
Suporn Pongnumkul, University of Washington, USA
Erika Poole, Penn State University, USA
Alan Pope, NASA Langley Research Center, USA
Ana-Maria Popescu, Pinterest, USA
Leslie Poppe, University of Washington, USA
Kristi Potter, University of Oregon, USA
Tania Pouli, Technicolor, France
Ivan Poupyrev, Disney Research, USA
Sören Preibusch, Microsoft Research, UK
Chris Preist, University of Bristol, UK
Nora Presson, University of Pittsburgh, USA
Mike Preuss, WWU Münster, Germany
Blaine Price, The Open University, UK
Sara Price, Institute of Education, UK
Reid Priedhorsky, Los Alamos National Laboratory, USA
Rafael Prikladnicki, Pucrs, Brazil
Michael Prilla, University of Bochum, Germany
Suzanne Prior, Media and Computer Games, UK
Kathrin Probst, University of Applied Sciences Upper KAIST, Republic of Korea ria,
Austria
Jason Procyk, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Halley Profita, University of Colorado, USA
Sebastian Prost, CURE - Center for Usability Research & Engineering, Austria
Janna Protzak, Berlin Institute of Technology, Germany
Emily Provost, University of Michigan, USA
John Pruitt, Microsoft, USA
Larissa Pschetz, Microsoft Research Asia, Midlothian
Deborah Ptak, University of Toronto, Canada
Pearl Pu, EPFL, Switzerland
Andreas Pusch, Julius-Maximilians-Universität, Germany
Cynthia Putnam, Depaul University, USA
Pardha Pyla, Virginia Tech, India
Huamin Qu, HKUST, Hong Kong
Novi Quadrianto, University of Cambridge, UK
Daniele Quercia, Yahoo! Research, UK
Whitney Quesenbery, Whitney Interactcive Design, USA
Alexander Quinn, University of Maryland, USA
Philip Quinn, University of Canterbury, New Zealand
Pablo-Alejandro Quinones, University of Michigan, USA
Andrew Quitmeyer, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Pernilla Qvarfordt, FX Palo Alto Laboratory, USA
Daphne Raban, University of Haifa, Israel
Mashfiqui Rabbi, Cornell University, USA
Robert Racadio, University of Washington, USA
Irene Rae, University of Wisconsin, USA
Matthew Rafalow, University of California Irvine, USA
Nikunj Raghuvanshi, Microsoft Research, USA
Tauhidur Rahman, Cornell University, USA
Kari-Jouko Räihä, University of Tampere, Finland
Andrew Raij, University of South Florida, USA
Roope Raisamo, University of Tampere, Finland
Eeva Raita, Helsinki Institute for Information Technology HIIT, Finland

36 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

Mikko Rajanen, University of Oulu, Finland
Thusha Rajendran, UK
Nitendra Rajput, IBM Research, India
Ismo Rakkolainen, University of Tampere, Finland
Raf Ramakers, Hasselt University - Tul - Iminds, Belgium
Ernesto Ramirez, University of California, USA
Gonzalo Ramos, Microsoft, USA
Adriane Randolph, Kennesaw State University, USA
Nimmi Rangaswamy, Microsoft Research India, India
Juhi Ranjan, University of Virginia, USA
Dimitrios Raptis, Aalborg University, Denmark
Umar Rashid, University of Kent, UK
Kirsten Rassmus-Gröhn, Lund University, Sweden
Rabindra Ratan, Information Studies, USA
Matt Ratto, University of Toronto, Toronto
Martina Rau, University of Wisconsin, USA
Janet Read, University of Central Lancashire, England
Kyle Rector, University of Washington, USA
Madhu Reddy, Penn State University, USA
Fiona Redhead, Queensland University of Technology, Australia
Johan Redström, Umeå Institute of Design, Sweden
Darren Reed, University of York, UK
Robert Reeder, Google, USA
Sarah Reeder, Indiana University, USA
Tim Regan, Microsoft, UK
Holger Regenbrecht, University of Otago, New Zealand
Derek Reilly, Dalhousie University, Canada
Peter Reimann, University of Sydney, Australia
Bryan Reimer, MIT, USA
Sofia Reis, Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Portugal
Wolfgang Reitberger, Vienna University of Technology, Austria
Harald Reiterer, University, Germany
Thomas Reitmaier, UCT Centre In ICT4D, South Africa
Jun Rekimoto, University of Tokyo / Sony CSL, Japan
Christian Remy, University of Zurich, Switzerland
Gang Ren, University of Bath, UK
Xiangshi Ren, Kochi University of Technology, Japan
Yuqing Ren, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Karen Renaud, University of Glasgow, UK
Christian Rendl, University of Applied Sciences Upper KAIST, Republic of Korea ria,
Austria
Stefan Rennick-Egglestone, The University of Nottingham, UK
Ronald Rensink, University of British Columbia, Canada
Paul Resnick, University of Michigan, USA
Glenda Revelle, University of Arkansas, USA
Gabriel Reyes, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Lindsay Reynolds, Cornell University, USA
Mark Rice, Institute of Infocomm Research, Singapore
Alex Richardson, The KAIST, Republic of Korea ralian National University, Australia
Alexander Richter, Unibwm, Germany
Jochen Rick, Saarland University, Germany
Angela Riechers, School of Visual Arts, USA
Jens Riegelsberger, University College London, UK
Soo Young Rieh, University of Michigan, USA
Andreas Riener, Johannes Kepler University, Austria

37 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

Alexander Rind, Vienna University of Technology, Austria
Lazlo Ring, Northeastern University, USA
Mikko Rissanen, Move Correctly, Singapore
Tobias Ritschel, MPI Informatik, Germany
Giuseppe Riva, Università Cattolica Del Sacro Cuore, Italy
Christopher Roast, Sheffield Hallam University, UK
Lionel Robert, University of Michigan, USA
Jonathan Roberts, Bangor University, UK
Judy Robertson, Heriot-Watt University, UK
Scott Robertson, University of Hawaii at Manoa, USA
Toni Robertson, University of Technology, Australia
Jeffrey Robins, Google, USA
Simon Robinson, Swansea University, UK
Carsten Röcker, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Tom Rodden, University of Nottingham, UK
Edgar Rodriguez, Wellington, New Zealand
David Roedl, Indiana University, USA
Yvonne Rogers, University College London, UK
Daniel Roggen, Newcastle University, UK
Markus Rohde, International Institute for Socio-Informatics, Germany
Michael Rohs, University of Hannover, Germany
Daniel Romero, Northwestern University, USA
Mario Romero, Delft University of Technology, Sweden
Natalia Romero Herrera, KTH, The Netherlands
John Rooksby, University of St Andrews, UK
Chris Rooney, Middlesex University, UK
Carolyn Rose, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Asta Roseway, Microsoft Research, USA
Joel Ross, University of California, USA
Chiara Rossitto, Stockholm University, Sweden
Mattias Rost, Mobile Life @ SICS, Sweden
Robert Roth, University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA
Virpi Roto, University of Helsinki, Finland
Nicolas Roussel, Inria, France
Maria Roussou, Makebelieve Design & Consulting, Greece
Debjani Roy, IIT Bombay, India
Quentin Roy, CNRS LTCI UMR 5141, France
Agata Rozga, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Elisa Rubegni, Universita Della Svizzera Italiana, Switzerland
Steve Rubin, University of California, USA
Michael Rubinstein, MIT, USA
Stefan Rüger, The Open University, UK
Jaime Ruiz, Colorado State University, USA
Enrico Rukzio, Lancaster University, Germany
Sonja Rümelin, University of Munich, Germany
Tuukka Ruotsalo, Aalto University, Finland
Derek Ruths, McGill University, Canada
Kimiko Ryokai, MIT Media Laboratory, USA
Jeffrey Rzeszotarski, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Daniel Saakes, Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands
Selma Sabanovic, Indiana University, USA
Andreas Sackl, FTW Telecommunications Research Center, Austria
Ramik Sadana, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Alireza Sahami Shirazi, University of Stuttgart, Germany
Arnaud Sahuguet, Google, USA

38 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

Alan Said, CWI, The Netherlands
Daisuke Sakamoto, The University of Tokyo, Japan
Mona Sakr, Institute of Education, UK
Ben Salem, Northumbria University, UK
Pascal Salembier, University of Technology of Troyes, France
Mariana Salgado, Laurea University of Applied Sciences, Finland
Guarionex Salivia, Minnesota State University, USA
Eva Lotta Sallnäs Pysander, Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden
Katri Salminen, University of Tampere, Finland
Antti Salovaara, Aalto University, Finland
Anastasia Salter, University of Baltimore, USA
Frode Sandnes, Oslo University College, Norway
Aditya Sankar, University of Washington, India
Vagner Santana, State University of Campinas, Brazil
Pedro Santana-Mancilla, University of Colima, Mexico
Carmen Santoro, ISTI-CNR, Italy
T. Saponas, Microsoft Research, USA
Aleksandra Sarcevic, Drexel University, USA
Makoto Sasaki, Iwate University, Japan
Daisuke Sato, IBM Research - Tokyo, Japan
Munehiko Sato, Disney Research, USA
Yoichi Sato, The University of Tokyo, Japan
Debra Satterfield, Iowa State University, USA
Allison Sauppé, University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA
Valkyrie Savage, University of California, USA
Nadav Savio, Google.org, USA
Pete Sawyer, Lancaster University, UK
Walt Scacchi, University of California, USA
Christopher Scaffidi, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Joey Scarr, University of Canterbury, New Zealand
Christopher Schaefbauer, University of Colorado, USA
Patricia Schank, SRI International, USA
Raimund Schatz, Forschungszentrum Telekommunikation Wien (ftw.), Austria
Florian Schaub, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Benjamin Scheibehenne, University of Basel, Switzerland
Jesse Schell, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Ansgar Scherp, Business Informatics and Business Mathematics, Germany
Gianluca Schiavo, University of Trento & FBK, Italy
Markus Schilling, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Thecla Schiphorst, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Steven Schirra, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Chris Schmandt, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Dominik Schmidt, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Holger Schnädelbach, University of Nottingham, UK
Jodi Schneider, National University of Ireland, Ireland
Guy Schofield, Newcastle University, UK
Jean Scholtz, Pacific Northwest Laboratory, USA
Johannes Schöning, Hasselt University - Tul - Iminds, Belgium
Marén Schorch, University of Siegen, Germany
Falk Schreiber
Ronald Schroeter, Queensland University of Technology, Australia
Kai Schubert, University of Siegen, Germany
Daniel Schultheiss, Ilmenau University of Technology, Germany
Timothy Schultz, Drexel University, USA
Victoria Schwanda Sosik, Cornell University, USA

39 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

Tobias Schwartz, Fraunhofer FIT, Germany
Julia Schwarz, University of Washington, USA
Lauren Scissors, Northwestern University, USA
Stacey Scott, University of Waterloo, Canada
Peter Scupelli, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Sue Ann Seah, University of Bristol, UK
A. Fleming Seay, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Michael Sedlmair, University of Vienna, Austria
Magy Seif El-Nasr, Northeastern University, USA
Julian Seifert, Ulm University, Germany
Susanne Seitinger, MIT Media Lab, USA
James Self, UNIST, South Korea
Kate Sellen, OCAD University, Canada
Katherine Sellen, University of Toronto, Canada
Bryan Semaan, University of Hawaii at Manoa, USA
Shilad Sen, University of Minnesota, USA
Phoebe Sengers, Cornell University, USA
Sepandar Sepehr, McMaster University, Canada
Marcos Serrano, IRIT, France
Lauren Sessions Goulet, Facebook, USA
Leslie Setlock, Cornell University, USA
Burr Settles, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Teddy Seyed, University of Calgary, Canada
Aviv Shachak, University of Toronto, Canada
Orit Shaer, Tufts University, USA
David Shaffer, University of Wisconsin, USA
Chirag Shah, Rutgers University, USA
Priti Shah, University of Michigan, USA
Qonita Shahab, Eindhoven University of Technology, The Netherlands
Noor Shaker, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
David Shamma, Yahoo!, USA
Ben Shapiro, Tufts,
Ehud Sharlin, University of Calgary, Canada
Moushumi Sharmin, University of Memphis, USA
Sarah Sharples, University of Nottingham, UK
Wes Sharrock, Manchester University, UK
Aaron Shaw, Northwestern University, USA
Richard Shay, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
John Shearer, Newcastle University, UK
Mohamed Sheik-Nainar, Synaptics Inc, USA
Chia Shen, Harvard University, USA
Dawei Shen, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
S. Andrew Sheppard, University of Minnesota, USA
Yuanchun Shi, Tsinghua University, China
Patrick Shih, The Pennsylvania State University, USA
Choonsung Shin, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Hiroyuki Shinoda, The University of Tokyo, Japan
Frank Shipman, Texas A&M University, USA
Sajad Shirali-Shahreza, University of Toronto, Canada
Mariya Shiyko, Northeastern University, USA
Buntarou Shizuki, University of Tsukuba, Japan
Irina Shklovski, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Garth Shoemaker, Google, USA
Milad Shokouhi, Microsoft Research, UK
Jamie Shotton, Microsoft Research Cambridge, UK

40 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Mark Shovman, Yahoo! Inc., Israel
George Siemens, Athabasca University, Canada
Beat Signer, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Belgium
Six Silberman, Bureau of Economic Interpretation, USA
Elizabeth Sillence, Northumbria University, UK
Liz Sillence, Northumbria University, UK
Paula Alexandra Silva, University of Hawaii at Manoa, Portugal
Johanna Silvennoinen, University of Jyväskylä, Finland
Adalberto Simeone, Lancaster University, UK
David Simmons, University of Glasgow, UK
Ian Simon, University of Washington, USA
Judge Simon, RAT Group, UK
Laurent Simon, University of Cambridge, UK
Jolynna Sinanan, The University of Melbourne, Australia
Leif Singer, University of Victoria, Canada
Karan Singh, University of Toronto, Canada
Supriya Singh, Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology, Australia
Vikash Singh, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, USA
Valentina Sintsova, EPFL, Switzerland
Behzod Sirjani, Northwestern University, USA
David Sirkin, Stanford University, USA
Daniel Sjölie, Umeå University, Sweden
Mikael B. Skov, Aalborg University, Denmark
Marjorie Skubic, University of Missouri, USA
Roger Slack, Bangor University, Wales, UK
Bernhard Slawik, University of Munich, Germany
Manya Sleeper, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Karin Slegers, KU Leuven, Belgium
James D. Slotta, University of Toronto, Canada
Petr Slovák, Vienna University of Technology, Austria
Jan Smeddinck, University of Bremen, Germany
Joshua Smith, University of Washington, USA
Madeline Smith, Cornell University, USA
Matthew Smith, Leibniz Universität Hannover, Germany
Ross Smith, University of South KAIST, Republic of Korea ralia, Australia
Thomas Smith, Newcastle University, UK
Michael Smyth, Edinburgh Napier University, UK
Jaime Snyder, Syracuse University, USA
Timothy Sohn, Google, USA
Tomas Sokoler, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Jacob Solomon, Michigan State University, USA
Andreas Sonderegger, University of Fribourg, Switzerland
Hyunyoung Song, University of Maryland, USA
Junehwa Song, KAIST, Korea
Yale Song, MIT CSAIL, USA
Diane Sonnenwald, UCD, Ireland
Daniel Sonntag, DFKI German Research Center for AI, Germany
Vladimir Soroka, IBM Haifa Research Lab, Israel
Alexander Sorokin, CrowdFlower, USA
Iris Soute, Eindhoven University of Technology, The Netherlands
Caleb Southern, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Michiel Sovijärvi-Spape, Aalto University, Finland
Anna Spagnolli, University of Padova, Italy
Oleg Spakov, University of Tampere, Finland
Lucio Davide Spano, University of Cagliari, Italy

(Return to Top)

41 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Mirjana Spasojevic, Nokia, USA
Chris Speed, Edinburgh College of Art, UK
Tess Speelpenning, Philips Research, The Netherlands
Wolfgang Spiessl, BMW Research and Technology, Germany
Tasos Spiliotopoulos, Madeira Interactive Technologies Institute, Portugal
Martin Spindler, University of Magdeburg, Germany
Adam Sporka, Czech Technical University In Prague, Czech Republic
Mary Ann Sprague, Xerox, USA
Srinath Sridhar, Max-Planck Institut Für Informatik, Germany
Saurabh Srivastava, IBM India Research Laboratory, India
Robert St. Amant, North Carolina State University, USA
Tad Stach, Queen's University, Canada
Frank Stajano, University of Cambridge, UK
Jeannie Stamberger, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Brodie Stanfield, University of Ontario Institute of Technology, Canada
Kevin Stanley, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Pieter Jan Stappers, Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands
Kate Starbird, University of Washington, USA
Thad Starner, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
John Stasko, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Bogdan State, Stanford University, USA
Ian Stavness, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Anthony Steed, University College London, UK
Ann Steele, The University of Texas at KAIST, Republic of Korea in, USA
Daniel Steffen, German Research Center for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI), Germany
Ben Steichen, University of British Columbia, Canada
Martin Stein, University of Siegen, Germany
Sebastian Stein, University of Dundee, Scotland, UK
Fabius Steinberger, University of Technology, Australia
Thomas Steiner, Hamburg, Germany
Aaron Steinfeld, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Frank Steinicke, University of Würzburg, Germany
Sophie Stellmach, Technische Universität Dresden, Germany
Amanda Stent, Yahoo! Labs, USA
William Steptoe, UCL, UK
Sarah Stevenage
Gunnar Stevens, University of Siegen, Germany
Craig Stewart, University of Glasgow, Scotland, UK
Michael Stewart, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, USA
Rainer Stiefelhagen, Universität Karlsruhe (TH), Germany
Jeremiah Still, Missouri Western State University, USA
David Stillwell, University of Nottingham, UK
Greg Stoddard, Northwestern, USA
Erik Stolterman, Indiana University Bloomington, USA
Margaret-Anne Storey, University of Victoria,
Cristiano Storni, University of Limerick, Ireland
Steven Strachan, CEA, France
Daniel Strazzulla, INRIA, France
Yolande Strengers, AHURI-RMIT Research Centre, Australia
Dagny Stuedahl, University of Oslo, Norway
Simone Stumpf, City University London, UK
Christian Sturm, Hamm-Lippstadt University of Applied Sciences, Germany
Norman Su, University College Dublin, Ireland
Ozge Subasi, Vienna University of Technology, Austria
Sriram Subramanian, University of Bristol, UK

(Return to Top)

42 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Yusuke Sugano, The University of Tokyo, Japan
Masanori Sugimoto, Hokkaido University, Japan
Bongwon Suh, Seoul National University, Republic of Korea
Hyeon-Jeong Suk, KAIST, South Korea
Piyawadee Sukaviriya, IBM Research - T. J. Watson, USA
Gita Sukthankar, University of Central Florida, USA
Evan Suma, University of Southern California, USA
Chengzheng Sun, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
David Sun, UC Berkeley, USA
Huatong Sun, University of Washington Tacoma, USA
Xiao Hua Sun, IBM Research China, China
Hari Sundaram, Arizona State University, USA
Petra Sundström, Mobile Life @ SICS, Sweden
Ja-Young Sung, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Siddharth Suri, Microsoft Research, USA
Alistair Sutcliffe, The University of Manchester, UK
Dag Svænes, NTNU, Norway
David Swallow, University of York, UK
Colin Swindells, University of Victoria, Canada
Cristina Sylla, University of Minho, Portugal
Anna-Liisa Syrjänen, University of Oulu, Finland
Daniel Szafir, University of Wisconsin, USA
Agnieszka (aga) Szostek, Warsaw School of Social Psychology, Poland
Gerd Szwillus, Universität Paderborn, Germany
Aurélien Tabard, University of Munich, Germany
Leila Takayama, Willow Garage, USA
Justin Talbot, Stanford University, USA
Chek Tien Tan, University of Technology, Australia
Hong Tan, Microsoft Research Asia, China
Kumiko Tanaka-Ishii, University of Tokyo, Japan
Joshua Tanenbaum, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Karen Tanenbaum, Simon Fraser University, USA
Anthony Tang, University of Calgary, Canada
Charlotte Tang, University of British Columbia, Canada
John Tang, Microsoft Research, USA
Stefano Targher, University of Trento, Italy
Andrea Tartaro, Furman University, USA
Craig Tashman, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Dan Tasse, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Sarah Tausch, University of Munich, Germany
Alex Taylor, Microsoft Research, UK
Nick Taylor, University of Dundee, UK
Robyn Taylor, Newcastle University, UK
Stuart Taylor, Microsoft Research, UK
Robert Teather, McMaster University, Canada
Kimberly Tee, SMART Technologies, USA
Daniel Teibel, Cassia, USA
Paul Tennent, The University of Nottingham, UK
Monica Tentori, UABC, Mexico
Leong-Hwee Teo, Carnegie Mellon University, Singapore
Lucia Terrenghi, Google, Switzerland
Michael Terry, University of Waterloo, Canada
Loren Terveen, University of Minnesota, USA
Ambuj Tewari, University of Michigan, USA
Anuj Tewari, UC Berkeley, USA

(Return to Top)

43 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Anja Thieme, Newcastle University, UK
Harold Thimbleby, University of Swansea, Wales, UK
Elizabeth Thiry, Pennsylvania State University, USA
Jennifer Thom, Amazon, USA
Katherine Thomas, University of North Texas, USA
Edison Thomaz, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Bart Thomee, Yahoo Labs, Spain
Robin Thompson, Newcastle University, UK
Feng Tian, Chinese Academy of Sciences, P.r. China
Lorenza Tiberio, National Research Council of Italy (CNR), Italia
Rob Tieben, Eindhoven University of Technology, Netherlands
Janko Timmermann, OFFIS - Institute for Information Technology, Germany
Nava Tintarev, University of Aberdeen, Scotland, UK
Mike Tissenbaum, University of Toronto, Canada
Hiroaki Tobita, Sony CSL Paris, Tokyo
Eran Toch, Tel Aviv University, Israel
Lisa Tolentino, Arizona State University, USA
Konrad Tollmar, KTH, Sweden
Peter Tolmie, University of Nottingham, UK
Catalina Toma, University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA
Christian Tominski, University of Rostock, Germany
Martin Tomitsch, Vienna University of Technology, Australia
Bill Tomlinson, University of California, USA
James Tompkin, MPI Informatik, Germany
KAIST, Republic of Korea in Toombs, Indiana University Bloomington, USA
Mercan Topkara, IBM Research, USA
Tammy Toscos, Indiana University-Purdue University, USA
Chad Tossell, Rice University, USA
W. Ben Towne, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Cuong Tran, University of California, USA
Minh-Triet Tran, University of Science, Vietnam
Matthias Treder, Technische Universität Berlin, Germany
Jeffrey Treem, Northwestern University, USA
Shari Trewin, IBM Research - T. J. Watson, USA
Ha Trinh, University of Dundee, UK
Giovanni Maria Troiano, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Spain
Khai Truong, University of Toronto, Canada
Janice Tsai, Microsoft Research, USA
Theophanis Tsandilas, Inria, France
Jason Tsay, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Edward Tse, SMART Technologies, Canada
Nikolaos Tselios, University of Patras, Greece
Yuan-Chi Tseng, National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan
Jessica Tsimeris, KAIST, Republic of Korea ralian National University, Australia
Gill Tsouri, Rochester Institute of Technology, USA
Katherine Tsui, University of Massachusetts Lowell, USA
Oren Tsur, Harvard University, USA
Huawei Tu, Swansea University, UK
Alexandre Tuch, University of Basel, Switzerland
Zeynep Tufekci, University of North Carolina, USA
Kathleen Tuite, University of Washington, USA
Marcello Turconi, University of Trieste, Italy
Jayson Turner, Lancaster University, UK
Thea Turner, USA
Lisa Tweedie, Tweedie Consulting, UK

(Return to Top)

44 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Michael Twidale, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA
George Tzanetakis, University of Victoria, Canada
Brygg Ullmer, Louisiana State University, USA
Kent Unruh, University of Washington, USA
Connor Upton, Intel Labs Europe, Ireland
Blase Ur, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Dina Utami
Stephen Uzor, Glasgow Caledonian University, UK
Kaisa Väänänen-Vainio-Mattila, Tampere University of Technology, Finland
Heli Väätäjä, Tampere University of Technology, Finland
Philip Vahey, SRI International, USA
Rajan Vaish, University of California, USA
Consuelo Valdes, Wellesley College, USA
Dimitar Valkov, University of Muenster, Germany
Anna Vallgårda, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Philip Van Allen, Art Center College of Design, USA
Bram Van de Laar, University of Twente,
Robin Van Den Akker, Belgium
Jan Van Den Bergh, Hasselt University - Tul - Iminds, Belgium
Bart Van Den Hooff, VU University Amsterdam, The Netherlands
Janet Van Der Linden, The Open University, UK
Jelle Van Dijk, Eindhoven University of Technology, Netherlands
Aart Van Halteren, Philips Research, Netherlands
Frank Van Ham, IBM Research, USA
Nancy Van House, University of California, USA
Max Van Kleek, MIT, UK
Kristof Van Laerhoven, TU Darmstadt, Germany
Jos Van Leeuwen, University of Madeira, Portugal
Christof Van Nimwegen, Utrecht University, The Netherlands
Paul Van Schaik, Teesside University, UK
Peter Van Waart, Rotterdam University of Applied Sciences, The Netherlands
Davy Vanacken, Hasselt University - Tul - Iminds, Belgium
Jeroen Vanattenhoven, KU Leuven, Belgium
Andrew Vande Moere, KU Leuven, Belgium
Jean Vanderdonckt, Université Catholique de Louvain (UCL), Belgium
Kami Vaniea, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Elina Vartiainen, Nokia Research Center, Sweden
Asimina Vasalou, University of Birmingham, UK
Radu-Daniel Vatavu, University Stefan Cel Mare of Suceava, Romania
Yolanda Vazquez-Alvarez, University of Glasgow, UK
Eduardo Veas, Graz University of Technology, Austria
Rajesh Veeraraghavan, UC Berkeley, USA
Laurian Vega, Virginia Tech, USA
Tiffany Veinot, University of Michigan, USA
Eduardo Velloso, Lancaster University, UK
Gina Venolia, Microsoft Research, USA
Colin Venters, University of Huddersfield, UK
Nervo Verdezoto, Aarhus University, Denmark
Arnold Vermeeren, Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands
Amber Vermeesch, Michigan State University, USA
Jo Vermeulen, Hasselt University - Tul - Iminds, Belgium
Frederic Vernier, Université Paris XI, France
Keith Vertanen, Montana Tech, USA
Roel Vertegaal, Queen's University, Canada
Janet Vertesi, Princeton University, USA

45 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

(Return to Top)

Carla Verwijs, In Transition, Canada
Chi Vi, University of Bristol, UK
Melodie Vidal, Lancaster University, UK
Timothy Vidas, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Sarah Vieweg, Qatar Computing Research Institute, Qatar
Markel Vigo, University of Manchester, UK
Nicolas Villar, Microsoft Research, UK
Vinayak, Purdue University, USA
Jussi Virkkala
Jessica Vitak, University of Maryland, USA
Lisa Vizer, University of Maryland, USA
Vasillis Vlachokyriakos, Newcastle University, UK
Simon Voelker, RWTH-Aachen University, Germany
Christian Vogler, Gallaudet University, USA
Stephen Voida, Indiana University, USA
Martin Voigt, TU Dresden, Germany
Dirk Vom Lehn, King's College London, Great Britain
Ulrich Von Zadow, Archimedes Exhibitions Gmbh, Germany
Emanuel Von Zezschwitz, University of Munich, Germany
Mihaela Vorvoreanu, Purdue University, USA
Hana Vrzakova, University of Eastern Finland, Finland
Romain Vuillemot, Harvard University, USA
Dhaval Vyas, University of Twente, The Netherlands
Katarzyna Wac, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Chat Wacharamanotham, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Juan P. Wachs, Purdue University, USA
Greg Wadley, The University of Melbourne, Australia
Johanna Wagner, Graz University of Technology, Austria
Julie Wagner, INRIA, Germany
Patrick Wagstrom, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Shahtab Wahid, Virginia Tech, USA
Brendan Walker, The University of Nottingham, England, UK
Bruce Walker, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Erin Walker, Arizona State University, USA
I Walker, University of Bath, UK
Lorna Wall, UCL, UK
Steven Wall, System Concepts Ltd, UK
James Wallace, University of Waterloo, Canada
Jayne Wallace, University of Dundee, UK
Guenter Wallner, University of Applied Arts Vienna, Austria
Jagoda Walny, University of Calgary, Canada
Greg Walsh, University of Maryland, USA
Tanja Walsh, Tampere University of Technology, Finland
Robert Walter, Telekom Innovation Laboratories, Germany
Lin Wan, University of Siegen, Germany
Chaoli Wang, Michigan Technological University, USA
Fei Wang, IBM Research - Almaden, USA
Jing Wang, The Pennsylvania State University, USA
Jingtao Wang, University of Pittsburgh, USA
Liang Wang, Microsoft, USA
Robert Wang, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Rongrong Wang, Samsung Research America, USA
Xiaoyu Wang, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, USA
Yang Wang, Syracuse University, USA
Yi-Chia Wang, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

46 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Yiran Wang, New Jersey Institute of Technology, USA
Yuchen Wang, University of Alberta, Canada
Colin Ware, University of New Hampshire, USA
Andrew Warr, Google, USA
Rick Wash, Michigan State University, USA
Gloria Washington, Clemson University, USA
Takayuki Watanabe, Tokyo Woman's Christian University, Japan
Kari Watkins, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Diane Watson, University of Waterloo, Canada
Martin Wattenberg, IBM Research, USA
Leon Watts, University of Bath, UK
Jenny Waycott, The University of Melbourne, Australia
Kimberly Weaver, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Gerhard Weber, Technische Universität Dresden, Germany
Michael Weber, University of Ulm, Germany
Ina Wechsung, TU Berlin, Germany
Rina Wehbe, University of Ontario Institute of Technology, Canada
Xuetao Wei, University of Cincinnati, USA
Anne Weibert, University of Siegen, Germany
Christian Weichel, Lancaster University, UK
Karl-Heinz Weidmann, Fachhochschule Vorarlberg, KAIST, Republic of Korea
ria/europe
Alexandra Weilenmann, IT-University of Göteborg, Sweden
Tino Weinkauf, Max-Planck Institut Für Informatik, Germany
Astrid Weiss, Vienna University of Technology, Austria
Stephan Wensveen, Eindhoven University of Technology, The Netherlands
Elizabeth Wenzel, NASA Ames Research Center, USA
Wayne Westerman, Apple, USA
Adam Westerski, Universidad Politecnica de Madrid, Spain
Tara Whalen, Dalhousie University, Canada
Joseph Wherton, Barts and The London School of Medicine and Dentistry, UK
Brandyn White, University of Maryland: College Park, USA
Kevin White, University of Maryland Baltimore County, USA
Sean White, Nokia, USA
Anthony Whitehead, Carleton University, Canada
Michael Whitney, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, USA
Steve Whittaker, University of California Santa Cruz, USA
Jon Whittle, Infolab21, UK
Mikael Wiberg, Umeå University, Sweden
Hadley Wickham, Rstudio, USA
Josef Wiemeyer, Sport Science, Germany
Jason Wiese, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Alexander Wiethoff, University of Munich, Germany
Andrea Wiggins, University of New Mexico, USA
Danielle Wilde, Rmit University, Australia
Erik Wilde, UC Berkeley, USA
Oliver Wilder-Smith, Northeastern University, USA
David Wilfinger, University of Salzburg, Austria
Wesley Willett, INRIA, France
Amanda Williams, Wyld Collective Ltd., Canada
Amanda Marisa Williams, University of California, Canada
Joseph Williams, Stanford University, USA
Kaiton Williams, Cornell University, USA
John Williamson, University of Glasgow, UK
Julie Williamson, University of Glasgow, UK

(Return to Top)

47 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Andrew Wilson, Microsoft Research, USA
Graham Wilson, University of Glasgow, Scotland, UK
Mathew Wilson, Swansea University, UK
Max Wilson, Swansea University, UK
Raphael Wimmer, University of Munich, Germany
Marco Winckler, ICS-IRIT, France
Christian Winkler, Ulm University, Germany
Sarah Wiseman, University College London, UK
Pamela Wisniewski, The Pennsylvania State University, USA
Jason Wither, Microsoft, USA
Jens Witkowski, Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg, Germany
Dan Witzner Hansen, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Jacob Wobbrock, University of Washington, USA
Jill Woelfer, University of Washington, USA
Donghee Yvette Wohn, Northwestern University, USA
Katrin Wolf, Deutsche Telekom Laboratories, Germany
Peter Wolkerstorfer, CURE - Center for Usability Research & Engineering, Austria
B.l. William Wong, Middlesex University, UK
Nelson Wong, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Krist Wongsuphasawat, University of Maryland, USA
Gavin Wood, Newcastle University, UK
Simon Wood, ABC, Australia
Emma Woodberry, Addenbrooke's Hospital, UK
Rob Woodbury, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Allison Woodruff, Intel Research, USA
Kirk Woolford, University of Surrey, UK
Marcel Worring, University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands
Rita Wouhaybi, Intel Corporation, USA
Julie Wright, Umass Boston, USA
Michael Wright, University of Bath, UK
Peter Wright, Newcastle University, UK
Andy Wu, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Anna Wu, Pennsylvania State University, USA
Jiayu Wu, Tsinghua University, China
Mike Wu, The University of Toronto, Canada
Shaomei Wu, Information Science, USA
Yu Wu, The Pennsylvania State University, USA
Daniela Wurhofer, University of Salzburg, Austria
Susan Wyche, Michigan State University, USA
Peta Wyeth, Queensland University of Technology, Australia
Ruth Wylie, Arizona State University, USA
Lonce Wyse, National University of Singapore, Singapore
Robert Xiao, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Xiao Xiao, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Xing Xie, Microsoft Research Asia, China
Anbang Xu, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA
Heng Xu, The Pennsylvania State University, USA
Yan Xu, Intel Labs, USA
Kota Yamaguchi, University of Tokyo, Japan
Katsu Yamane, Disney Research, USA
Naomi Yamashita, NTT Communication Science Laboratories, Japan
Hirotake Yamazoe, Osaka University, Japan
de-Nian Yang, Academia Sinica, Taipei
Huahai Yang, IBM Research - Almaden, USA
Jiang Yang, University of Michigan, USA

(Return to Top)

48 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Rayoung Yang, University of Michigan, USA
Rui Yang
Stephen Yang, SUNY Cortland, USA
Xing-Dong Yang, University of Alberta, Canada
Koji Yatani, Microsoft Research Asia, China
Yina Ye, Helsinki Institute for Information Technology HIIT, Finland
Nick Yee, PARC, USA
Tom Yeh, University of Colorado, USA
Yeliz Yesilada, University of Manchester, UK
Jude Yew, National University of Singapore, Singapore
Samantha Yglesias, Virginia Tech, Montgomery
Ji Soo Yi, Purdue University, USA
Emine Yilmaz, University College London, UK
Langxuan Yin, Northeastern University, USA
Ming Yin, Harvard University, USA
Jason Yip, University of Maryland, USA
Salu Ylirisku, Aalto University, Finland
Christian Yoder, University of California, USA
Daisy Yoo, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Hyoseok Yoon, KAIST, Korea
Chuang-Wen You, Academia Sinica, Taiwan
Alyson Young, UMBC, USA
James Young, University of Manitoba, Canada
Chun Yu, Tsinghua University, China
Lixiu Yu, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Michael Yu, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Neng-Hao Yu, National Taiwan University, Taiwan
Zhiwen Yu, School of Computer Science Xi'an, China
Chien Wen Yuan, Cornell University, USA
Nicholas Yuan, Microsoft Research Asia, China
Beste Yuksel, Tufts University, USA
Stanislaw Zabramski, Uppsala University, Sweden
Lisl Zach, Drexel University, USA
Jose Zagal, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Panagiotis Zaharias, Athens University of Economics and Business, Greece
Bieke Zaman, IBBT-KU Leuven, Belgium
Massimo Zancanaro, FBK-Irst, Italy
Richard Zanibbi, Rochester Institute of Technology, USA
Michael Zarro, Drexel University, USA
Polle Zellweger, Maczell Consulting, USA
Shumin Zhai, Research @ Google, USA
Cheng Zhang, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Haimo Zhang, National University of Singapore, Singapore
Haoqi Zhang, Harvard University, USA
Pei Zhang, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Tao Zhang, North Carolina State University, USA
Yan Zhang, University of Texas at KAIST, Republic of Korea in, USA
Yanxia Zhang, Lancaster University, UK
Chen Zhao, Alibaba International UED, USA
Dejin Zhao, PSU, USA
Jian Zhao, University of Toronto, Canada
Xuan Zhao, University of Michigan, USA
Bin Zheng, University of Alberta, Canada
Yangshuo Zheng, Tsinghua University, China
Jia Zhou, Chongqing, China

(Return to Top)

49 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

CHI 2014 Compilation -- Paper & Note Reviewers

file:///P:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2014/CHI_2014_USB/forms/pa...

Lina Zhou, University of Maryland, USA
Yajin Zhou, Raleigh, USA
Bin Zhu, Microsoft Research Asia, China
Haiyi Zhu, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Mengxiao Zhu, Rutgers University, USA
Zhigang Zhu, The City College of New York, USA
Martina Ziefle, Rwth Aachen University, Germany
Juergen Ziegler, University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany
Caroline Ziemkiewicz, Brown University, USA
Roshanak Zilouchian Moghaddam, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA
Ryder Ziola, University of Washington, USA
Miriam Zisook, Northeastern University, USA
Hadar Ziv, University of California, USA
Goranka Zoric, Stockholm University, Sweden
Jo Zucco, University of South KAIST, Republic of Korea ralia, Australia
Sacha Zyto, MIT, USA

Proceedings

Extended Abstracts

Author Index

Main Page

50 of 50

4/21/2014 7:42 AM

Disney Research     N ewcastle U niversity

