Disk 1 of 2

Conference Proceedings
The 30th ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI)

ISBN 978-1-4503-1015-4
ACM Order Number 609121

The Association for Computing Machinery
2 Penn Plaza, Suite 701
New York, New York 10121-0701

Copyright © 2012 by the Association for Computing Machinery, Inc. (ACM). Permission to make digital or
hard copies of portions of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies
are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full
citation on the first page.  Copyright for components of this work owned by others than ACM must be
honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted.  To copy otherwise, to republish, to post on servers or to
redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee.  Request permission to republish from:
permissions@acm.org or Fax +1 (212) 869-0481.

For other copying of articles that carry a code at the bottom of the first or last page, copying is permitted
provided that the per-copy fee indicated in the code is paid through www.copyright.com.

Notice to Past Authors of ACM-Published Articles
ACM intends to create a complete electronic archive of all articles and/or other material previously published
by ACM. If you have written a work that has been previously published by ACM in any journal or
conference proceedings prior to 1978, or any SIG Newsletter at any time, and you do NOT want this work to
appear in the ACM Digital Library, please inform permissions@acm.org, stating the title of the work, the
author(s), and where and when published.

ISBN:  978-1-4503-1015-4

Additional copies may be ordered prepaid from:

ACM Order Department
PO Box 30777
New York, NY  10087-0777, USA

Phone: 1-800-342-6626 (USA and Canada)
+1-212-626-0500 (Global)
Fax: +1-212-944-1318
E-mail: acmhelp@acm.org
Hours of Operation: 8:30 am – 4:30 pm ET

ACM Order Number:   609121

Printed in the USA

ii

Welcome to CHI 2012!

After nearly two years of preparation, we are thrilled to welcome you to CHI 2012 in Austin, Texas. Austin is
justifiably proud of being the Live Music Capital of the World (R), and it is home to a world-class university,
innovative technology and design firms, superb restaurants, exciting culture and nightlife, and genuinely friendly
people--what a perfect fit for our CHI conference. We encourage you to get out and explore the city.

But we also are working hard to lure you back indoors with a phenomenal technical program. At the core of the
program are over a hundred technical sessions with research papers and notes, case studies, and other exciting
presentations that bring you the best new work on human-computer interaction.

We give thanks to our hundreds of review committee members and our more than one thousand reviewers--they
invested thousands of hours to help make sure that we've picked the best content. All of the technical content can
be found in the ACM Digital Library.

At  the  same  time,  we  hope  to  lure  you  into  our  useful  courses,  engaging  panels,  and  thoughtful  invited  talks.
We're very excited to have Margaret Gould Stewart and Hugh Herr as our keynote speakers. In spanning from
Margaret's  talk  on  connecting  the  world  through  video  to  Hugh's  talk  on  designing  intelligent  orthotics  and
prosthetics we span the scope of this conference--from social interaction with each other through computing to
the very personal and intimate interaction of a human with computerized limbs or other assistive devices. We're
also excited to have two special invited talks: Stu Card, SIGCHI's 2000 Lifetime Achievement Award winner,
will talk about what interaction science means in today's environment; and Richard Shusterman will bridge HCI
and  the  humanities  as  he  introduces  us  to  Somaesthetics  and  how  it  can  improve  our  understanding  and
experience. We are also honored to have Dan Olsen, Joy Mountford, and Batya Friedman--SIGCHI's Lifetime
Research, Lifetime Practice,  and Social Impact awardees--each giving talks at CHI 2012. Each of the three of
them has made an indelible impact on our field.

The theme of this year's CHI conference is "It's the Experience!" and from the beginning it has been our goal to
ensure  that  CHI  2012  attendees  don't  only  hear  about  HCI,  but  experience  it  with  all  of  their  senses.  We  are
therefore delighted to have more than 60 interactivity demonstrations and installations--opportunities for you to
see, feel, hear, and interact with exciting new technologies and also to reflect on technologies of the past, thanks
to Roger Ibars' HWD collection--a hands-on installation of historic hard-wired input devices. We'll be featuring
the  full  set  of  interactivity  on  Tuesday  afternoon  and  Wednesday  lunchtime;  selected  installations  will  be
available  at  other  times--check  the  Interactivity  tab  for  more  details.  Our  video  program  will  provide  another
way to experience innovative forms of HCI.

CHI 2012 has new depth in Computer Games (including a new student games competition), digital arts, and the
humanities. We have an unusually rich collection of Digital Arts installations--we invite you to take some time
to interact with the artists and learn about how art--like science, engineering, and design--has its own ways of
posing and exploring challenging questions.

And  there's  so  much  more.  We  will  also  have  over  250  posters  representing  exciting  works-in-progress  and
much more. Student venues at CHI 2012 include our doctoral consortium--an intimate opportunity for extensive
mentoring and peer support; student research and design competitions, and the games competition. Come see the
competition finalists! And let's not forget CHI Madness--a frenetic but highly efficient whirlwind tour through
each days technical papers.

Even  before  we  "formally"  open  the  conference  Monday  morning,  we  will  have  had  an  intensive  weekend  of
workshops  where  CHI  attendees  gather  to  address  emerging  fields,  tackle  challenging  questions,  and  simply
support each other in areas of common interest. The mutual support continues both in formal SIG gatherings and
in informal gatherings in the convention center halls and at tables in our exhibit hall. We particularly invite you
to gather together in affinity groups built around our nine communities--these communities not only shape our
program, they also can help enrich your experience as an attendee.

In the end, though, it is been quite an Experience! for us. We are grateful to all the dedicated volunteers and staff
that  have  made  this  conference  possible.  We  appreciate  the  support  of  our  sponsors  and  participation  of  our
exhibitors. And most of all, we thank you for joining us here at the conference. We hope you find things some
things that are useful, some things that are inspiring, and some things that are just plain fun. We hope you have
an incredible CHI 2012 Experience!

Joseph A. Konstan
University of Minnesota
CHI 2012
General Conference Chair

Ed H. Chi
Google
CHI 2012
Technical Program Chairs

Kristina Höök
Mobile Life at KTH
CHI 2012
Technical Program Chairs

iii

From ACM SIGCHI's President
and Vice President for Conferences

SIGCHI is proud to sponsor the premier annual conference in the field of human-computer interaction. We are
extremely grateful to the CHI 2012 Conference Chair Joseph Konstan, to Technical Program Chairs Ed Chi and
Kristina Höök, and to their wonderful crew, who succeeded to build an impressive program and experience.

CHI  2012  marks  the  30th  anniversary  of  our  society.  The  first  conference,  on  Human  Factors  in  Computer
Systems, took place in Gaithersburg, MD, on March 15-17, 1982.

The second and third conferences were a year and a half apart, and from then on CHI, as the conference has been
called  since  1983,  has  been  an  annual  event  with  the  official  name:  "ACM  Conference  on  Human  Factors  in
Computing Systems".

The first conference drew over 900 attendees, and since then CHI has continued to grow and broaden its range of
topics  and  contributing  disciplines:  the  founding  psychologists  and  software  engineers  began  to  meet  new
visions  from  ethnography,  sociology,  communication  sciences  and  arts,  among  others.  Relevant  industries,  as
well as research institutes and academia, showed an increasing-and often long-lasting-interest and involvement
(through volunteers and through sponsorship for conference expenses).

CHI is an ideal forum for people to meet formally as well as informally, to exchange knowledge and views, to
share  experiences,  and  to  learn.  The  CHI  conference brings  together professionals  from  research  and practice;
people  from  industry,  academia,  and  from  government;  long-term  veterans  of  HCI,  young  professionals  and
students; all in an environment designed to encourage interaction. We invite you to actively participate in that
interaction: introduce yourself to people, interact with presenters and speakers, renew old friendships and make
new ones.

CHI  is  organized  on  behalf  of  ACM's  Special  Interest  Group  on  Computer-Human  Interaction  (SIGCHI),  an
international  community  of  professionals  who  share  an  interest  in  the many  diverse facets  of HCI.  SIGCHI  is
committed  both  to  advancing  the  field  of  HCI,  to  facilitate  exchange  of  information  within  the  SIGCHI
community, and to support students to enter the domain.

The CHI conference is arguably the single most visible activity of SIGCHI, but we also sponsor and support a
wide  range  of  specialized  conferences  in  areas  ranging  from  interactive  systems  design  to  user  interface
technology to computer-supported cooperative work to "intelligent" user interfaces. Visit the SIGCHI website at
http://www.sigchi.org to find our conference schedule, listing upcoming as well as past conferences.

SIGCHI  and  ACM  produce  some  of  the  most  respected  publications  in  the  field.  All  members  receive
interactions,  a  highly-acclaimed  magazine  covering  the  broad  field  of  HCI  and  user  interface  design.  ACM
Transactions  on  Computer-Human  Interactions  (ToCHI),  now  in  its  18th  year,  is  our  flagship  journal  -  a
quarterly publication with the top-quality archival research aimed at researchers and those translating research
into practice.

SIGCHI is truly an international organization, with over 30 local chapters and 3 student chapters in 19 countries
on 5 continents. We encourage all SIGCHI members to join their local chapter - or if there isn't one in your area,
we would love to help you create one. And don't forget virtual communities! SIGCHI hosts dozens of electronic
mailing lists on topics ranging from HCI and the Web, to HCI educations, to public policy and beyond. Those
lists range from dozens of subscribers to thousands, and are an excellent way to keep up with the field and with
friends and colleagues.

Finally, on behalf of ACM SGICHI, we again want to thank the conference committee and all of the hundreds of
volunteers who make this conference possible. Their work makes this a rewarding experience for all of us.

Gerrit C. van der Veer
SIGCHI President

John "Scooter" Morris
SIGCHI Vice-President for Conferences

iv

ABOUT SIGCHI

CHI  2012  is  sponsored  by  ACM’s  Special  Interest  Group  on  Computer-Human  Interaction  (ACM  SIGCHI).
ACM,  the  Association  for  Computing  Machinery,  is  an  educational  and  scientific  society  uniting  the  world’s
computing educators, researchers, and professionals to inspire dialogue, share resources, and address the field’s
challenges.  ACM  strengthens  the  profession’s  collective  voice  through  strong  leadership,  promotion  of  the
highest  standards,  and  recognition  of  technical  excellence.  ACM  supports  the  professional  growth  of  its
members  by  providing  opportunities  for  life-long  learning,  career  development,  and  professional  networking.
ACM offers its more than 100,000 worldwide members cutting edge technical information through world class
journals and magazines, dynamic special interest groups, and globally recognized conferences.

Visit www.acm.org for more information about the ACM.

SIGCHI  is  the  premier  international  society  for  professionals,  academics,  and  students  who  are  interested  in
human-computer  interaction  (HCI).  We  provide  a  forum  for  the  discussion  of  all  aspects  of  HCI  through  our
conferences, including our flagship CHI conference, publications, web sites, email discussion groups, and other
services.  We  advance  education  in  HCI  through  courses,  workshops,  and  outreach,  and  we  promote  informal
access  to  a  wide  range  of  individuals  and  organizations  involved  in  HCI.  Members  can  be  involved  in  HCI-
related  activities  with  others  in  their  region  through  local  SIGCHI  chapters.  Come  to  the  SIGCHI  Town  Hall
meeting on Wednesday at 12:50 in Meeting Room 16AB, 4th Floor or visit www.sigchi.org to learn more about
SIGCHI.

ACM, the Association for Computing Machinery http://www.acm.org/, is an educational and scientific society
uniting the world's computing educators, researchers and professionals to inspire dialogue, share resources and
address  the  field's  challenges.  ACM  strengthens  the  profession's  collective  voice  through  strong  leadership,
promotion  of  the  highest  standards,  and  recognition  of  technical  excellence.ACM  supports  the  professional
growth of  its members  by  providing opportunities  for  life-long  learning,  career development,  and professional
networking.  ACM  offers  its  87,000  global  members  cutting-edge  technical  information  through  world  class
journals and magazines, dynamic specia linterest groups and globally recognized conferences.

                                                                           v

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 7th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

CHI 2012 Proceedings Table of Contents
May 7th Paper & Note Sessions

CHI 2012 Papers & Notes Co-Chairs' Message

CHI 2012 Papers & Notes Associate Chairs

CHI 2012 Papers & Notes Additional Reviewers

Click here to see all the Papers & Note Sessions (Whole List)

Monday, May 7 AM Sessions

Monday, May 7 PM Sessions

Tuesday, May 8 AM Sessions

Tuesday, May 8 PM Sessions

Wednesday, May 9 AM Sessions

Wednesday, May 9 PM Sessions

Thursday, May 10 AM Sessions

Thursday, May 10 PM Sessions

This symbol identifies and links to the accompanying video.

This symbol identifies a best paper award winner.

Main Page

Conference Welcome

Society Welcome

About SIGCHI & ACM

CHI'12 Organization

CHI'12 Proceedings

(Papers & Notes)

Author Index

Sponsors & Supporters

This symbol identifies a best paper nominee.

139: AI & Machine-Learning & Translation
Session Chair: Tessa Lau, IBM Almaden Research Center, USA

May 7, 11:30 AM
Room: 12AB

(Return to Top)

Tell Me More? The Effects of Mental Model Soundness on Personalizing
an Intelligent Agent (Page 1)
Todd Kulesza, Oregon State University, USA
Simone Stumpf, City University London, UK
Margaret Burnett, Oregon State University, USA
Irwin Kwan, Oregon State University, USA

Pay Attention! Designing Adaptive Agents That Monitor and Improve
User Engagement (Page 11)
Daniel Szafir, University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA
Bilge Mutlu, University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA

Regroup: Interactive Machine Learning for On-Demand Group Creation
in Social Networks (Page 21)
Saleema Amershi, University of Washington, USA
James Fogarty, University of Washington, USA
Daniel S. Weld, University of Washington, USA

Monsieur, azonnal kövessen engem bitte! An Automatically Generated
Interlanguage Tailored to Speakers of Minority But Culturally Influenced
Languages (Page 31)
Luis A. Leiva, Universitat Politècnica de València, Spain
Vicent Alabau, Universitat Politècnica de València, Spain

"Then Click 'Ok!'" Extracting References to Interface Elements in Online
Documentation (Page 35)
Adam Fourney, University of Waterloo, Canada
Ben Lafreniere, University of Waterloo, Canada
Richard Mann, University of Waterloo, Canada
Michael Terry, University of Waterloo, Canada

(Return to Top)

204: Teaching with New Interfaces
Session Chair: Leila Takayama, Willow Garage, USA

May 7, 11:30 AM
Room: 17AB

1 of 10

4/21/2012 10:48 AM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 7th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

"Oh Dear Stacy!" Social Interaction, Elaboration, and Learning with
Teachable Agents (Page 39)
Amy Ogan, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Samantha Finkelstein, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Elijah Mayfield, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Claudia D'Adamo, Wheaton College, USA
Noboru Matsuda, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Justine Cassell, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

From Participatory to Contributory Simulations: Changing the Game in
the Classroom (Page 49)
Stefan Kreitmayer, The Open University & University College London, UK
Yvonne Rogers, University College London, UK
Robin Laney, The Open University, UK
Stephen Peake, The Open University, UK

133: Game Experiences
Session Chair: Katherine Isbister, NYU-Poly, USA

May 7, 11:30 AM
Room: 18AB

The Impact of Tutorials on Games of Varying Complexity (Page 59)
Erik Andersen, University of Washington, USA
Eleanor O'Rourke, University of Washington, USA
Yun-En Liu, University of Washington, USA
Richard Snider, University of Washington, USA
Jeff Lowdermilk, University of Washington, USA
David Truong, University of Washington, USA
Seth Cooper, University of Washington, USA
Zoran Popovic, University of Washington, USA

Tales from the Front Lines of a Large-Scale Serious Game Project (Page
69)
Rilla Khaled, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Gordon Ingram, University of Bath, UK

Not Doing But Thinking: The Role of Challenge in Immersive
Videogames (Page 79)
Anna L. Cox, University College London, UK
Paul Cairns, University of York, UK
Pari Shah, University College London, UK
Michael Carroll, University of York, UK

Understanding User Experience in Stereoscoopic 3D Games (Page 89)
Jonas Schild, University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany
Joseph J. LaViola, Jr., University of Central Florida, USA
Maic Masuch, University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany

136: Eating + Cooking
Session Chair: Wendy Ju, California College of the Arts, USA

May 7, 11:30 AM
Room: 18CD

Health Promotion as Activism: Building Community Capacity to Effect
Social Change (Page 99)
Andrea G. Parker, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Vasudhara Kantroo, Nokia R&D, USA
Hee Rin Lee, Indiana University, Bloomington, USA
Miguel Osornio, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Mansi Sharma, Georgia Institute of Technology, Georgia
Rebecca E. Grinter, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA

Augmented Perception of Satiety: Controlling Food Consumption by
Changing Apparent Size of Food with Augmented Reality (Page 109)
Takuji Narumi, The University of Tokyo, Japan
Yuki Ban, The University of Tokyo, Japan
Takashi Kajinami, The University of Tokyo, Japan
Tomohiro Tanikawa, The University of Tokyo, Japan
Michitaka Hirose, The University of Tokyo, Japan

Laying the Table for HCI: Uncovering Ecologies of Domestic Food
Consumption (Page 119)
Annika Hupfeld, University of Nottingham, UK
Tom Rodden, University of Nottingham, UK

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

2 of 10

4/21/2012 10:48 AM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 7th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

panavi: Recipe Medium with a Sensors-Embedded Pan for Domestic
Users to Master Professional Culinary Arts (Page 129)
Daisuke Uriu, Keio University, Japan
Mizuki Namai, Keio University, Japan
Satoru Tokuhisa, Keio University, Japan
Ryo Kashiwagi, Keio University, Japan
Masahiko Inami, Keio University, Japan
Naohito Okude, Keio University, Japan

127: Touch in Context
Session Chair: Eric Paulos, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

May 7, 11:30 AM
Room: 16AB

Keep in Touch: Channel, Expectation and Experience (Page 139)
Rongrong Wang, Virginia Tech, USA
Francis Quek, Virginia Tech, USA
Deborah Tatar, Virginia Tech, USA
James Keng Soon Teh, National University of Singapore, Singapore
Adrian David Cheok, Keio University, Japan

TAP & PLAY: An End-User Toolkit for Authoring Interactive Pen and
Paper Language Activities (Page 149)
Anne Marie Piper, University of California, San Diego, USA
Nadir Weibel, University of California, San Diego, USA
James D. Hollan, University of California, San Diego, USA

At Home with Surface Computing? (Page 159)
David S. Kirk, Newcastle University, UK
Shahram Izadi, Microsoft Research, Cambridge, UK
Otmar Hilliges, Microsoft Research, Cambridge, UK
Stuart Taylor, Microsoft Research, Cambridge, UK
Abigail Sellen, Microsoft Research, Cambridge, UK
Richard Banks, Microsoft Research, Cambridge, UK

StoryCrate: Tabletop Storyboarding for Live Film Production (Page 169)
Tom Bartindale, Newcastle University, UK
Alia Sheikh, BBC Research & Development, UK
Nick Taylor, Newcastle University, UK
Peter Wright, Newcastle University, UK
Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University, UK

118: Curves & Mirages:
Gestures & Interaction with Nonplanar Surfaces
Session Chair: Per Ola Kristensson, University of St Andrews, UK

May 7, 11:30 AM
Room: Ballroom
E

LightGuide: Projected Visualizations for Hand Movement Guidance (Page
179)
Rajinder Sodhi, Microsoft Research & University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,
USA
Hrvoje Benko, Microsoft Research, USA
Andrew D. Wilson, Microsoft Research, USA

Understanding Flicking on Curved Surfaces (Page 189)
Simon Voelker, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Christine Sutter, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Lei Wang, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Jan Borchers, RWTH Aachen University, Germany

MirageTable: Freehand Interaction on a Projected Augmented Reality
Tabletop (Page 199)
Hrvoje Benko, Microsoft Research, USA
Ricardo Jota, Microsoft Research & Technical University of Lisbon, Portugal
Andrew D. Wilson, Microsoft Research, USA

How Screen Transitions Influence Touch and Pointer Interaction Across
Angled Display Arrangements (Page 209)
Fabian Hennecke, University of Munich, Germany
Wolfgang Matzke, University of Munich, Germany
Andreas Butz, University of Munich, Germany

How Small Can You Go? Analyzing the Effect of Visual Angle in Pointing
Tasks (Page 213)
Juan Pablo Hourcade, University of Iowa, USA
Natasha E. Bullock-Rest, University of Iowa & Brown University, USA

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

3 of 10

4/21/2012 10:48 AM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 7th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

117: Leveraging the Crowd
Session Chair: Andrea Forte, Drexel University, USA

May 7, 11:30 AM
Room: Ballroom
F

Human Computation Tasks with Global Constraints (Page 217)
Haoqi Zhang, Harvard University, USA
Edith Law, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Robert C. Miller, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Krzysztof Z. Gajos, Harvard University, USA
David C. Parkes, Harvard University, USA
Eric Horvitz, Microsoft Research, USA

Strategies for Crowdsourcing Social Data Analysis (Page 227)
Wesley Willett, University of California, Berkeley, USA
Jeffrey Heer, Stanford University, USA
Maneesh Agrawala, University of California, Berkeley, USA

Direct Answers for Search Queries in the Long Tail (Page 237)
Michael S. Bernstein, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Jaime Teevan, Microsoft Research, USA
Susan Dumais, Microsoft Research, USA
Daniel Liebling, Microsoft Research, USA
Eric Horvitz, Microsoft Research, USA

Distributed Sensemaking: Improving Sensemaking by Leveraging the
Efforts of Previous Users (Page 247)
Kristie Fisher, Microsoft & Microsoft Research, USA
Scott Counts, Microsoft, USA
Aniket Kittur, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

121: Getting Around: Menus, Scrolling, & Advanced Navigation
Session Chair: Emmanuel Pietriga, INRIA, France

May 7, 11:30 AM
Room: Ballroom
G

Improving Command Selection with CommandMaps (Page 257)
Joey Scarr, University of Canterbury, New Zealand
Andy Cockburn, University of Canterbury, New Zealand
Carl Gutwin, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Andrea Bunt, University of Manitoba, Canada

Improving Scrolling Devices with Document-Length-Dependent Gain (Page
267)
Andy Cockburn, University of Canterbury, New Zealand
Philip Quinn, University of Canterbury, New Zealand
Carl Gutwin, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Stephen Fitchett, University of Canterbury, New Zealand

Aural Browsing On-The-Go: Listening-Based Back Navigation in Large
Web Architectures (Page 277)
Tao Yang, Indiana University, USA
Mexhid Ferati, Indiana University, USA
Yikun Liu, Indiana University, USA
Romisa Rohani Ghahari, Indiana University, USA
Davide Bolchini, Indiana University, USA

Polyzoom: Multiscale and Multifocus Exploration in 2D Visual
Spaces (Page 287)
Waqas Javed, Purdue University, USA
Sohaib Ghani, Purdue University, USA
Niklas Elmqvist, Purdue University, USA

124: Spectators
Session Chair: Barry Brown, University of California, San Diego, USA

May 7, 11:30 AM
Room: 19AB

Looking Glass: A Field Study on Noticing Interactivity of a Shop
Window (Page 297)
Jörg Müller, TU Berlin, Germany
Robert Walter, TU Berlin, Germany
Gilles Bailly, TU Berlin, Germany
Michael Nischt, TU Berlin, Germany
Florian Alt, University of Stuttgart, Germany

Urban HCI: Spatial Aspects in the Design of Shared Encounters for
Media Façades (Page 307)
Patrick Tobias Fischer, University of Strathclyde, UK

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

4 of 10

4/21/2012 10:48 AM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 7th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

Eva Hornecker, University of Strathclyde, UK

Chained Displays: Configurations of Public Displays Can Be Used to
Influence Actor-, Audience-, and Passer-By Behavior (Page 317)
Maurice Ten Koppel, TU Berlin, Germany
Gilles Bailly, TU Berlin, Germany
Jörg Müller, TU Berlin, Germany
Robert Walter, TU Berlin, Germany

131: Immateriality as a Design Feature
Session Chair: Joonhwan Lee, Seoul National University, Korea

May 7, 2:30 PM
Room: 17AB

Investigating the Presence, Form and Behavior of Virtual Possessions in
the Context of a Teen Bedroom (Page 327)
William Odom, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
John Zimmerman, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Jodi Forlizzi, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Hajin Choi, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Stephanie Meier, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Angela Park, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Technology Heirlooms? Considerations for Passing Down and Inheriting
Digital Materials (Page 337)
William Odom, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Richard Banks, Microsoft Research, UK
David Kirk, Newcastle University, UK
Richard Harper, Microsoft Research Cambridge, UK
Siân Lindley, Microsoft Research Cambridge, UK
Abigail Sellen, Microsoft Research Cambridge, UK

Digitality and Materiality of New Media: Online TV Watching in China (Page
347)
Qi Wang, Fudan University, China
Xianghua Ding, Fudan University, China
Tun Lu, Fudan University, China
Ning Gu, Fudan University, China

Writing the Experience of Information Retrieval: Digital Collection Design
as a Form of Dialogue (Page 357)
Melanie Feinberg, University of Texas at Austin, USA

134: Privacy + Self Disclosure
Session Chair: Manfred Tscheligi, University of Salzburg, Austria

May 7, 2:30 PM
Room: 18AB

The Mismeasurement of Privacy: Using Contextual Integrity to
Reconsider Privacy in HCI (Page 367)
Louise Barkhuus, Mobile Life @ Stockholm University, Sweden

Tag, You Can See It! Using Tags for Access Control in Photo
Sharing (Page 377)
Peter F. Klemperer, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Yuan Liang, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Michelle L. Mazurek, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Manya Sleeper, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Blase Ur, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Lujo Bauer, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Lorrie Faith Cranor, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Nitin Gupta, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Michael K. Reiter, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, USA

Curation, Provocation, and Digital Identity: Risks and Motivations for
Sharing Provocative Images Online (Page 387)
Rebecca Gulotta, HCII - Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Haakon Faste, HCII - Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Jennifer Mankoff, HCII - Carnegie Mellon University, USA

The Implications of Offering More Disclosure Choices for Social
Location Sharing (Page 391)
Karen P. Tang, University of California, Irvine, USA
Jason I. Hong, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Daniel P. Siewiorek, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

5 of 10

4/21/2012 10:48 AM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 7th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

Interactivity as Self-Expression: A Field Experiment with Customization
and Blogging (Page 395)
S. Shyam Sundar, The Pennsylvania State University & Sungkyunkwan University,
USA
Jeeyun Oh, The Pennsylvania State University, USA
Saraswathi Bellur, The Pennsylvania State University, USA
Haiyan Jia, The Pennsylvania State University, USA
Hyang-Sook Kim, The Pennsylvania State University, USA

137: Supporting Visually Impaired Users
Session Chair: Vicki Hanson, University of Dundee, UK

May 7, 2:30 PM
Room: 18CD

CrossingGuard: Exploring Information Content in Navigation Aids for
the Visually Impaired (Page 405)
Richard T. Guy, University of Toronto, Canada
Khai N. Truong, University of Toronto, Canada

SpaceSense: Representing Geographical Information to Visually
Impaired People Using Spatial Tactile Feedback (Page 415)
Koji Yatani, University of Toronto & Microsoft Research Asia, Canada
Nikola Banovic, University of Toronto, Canada
Khai N. Truong, University of Toronto, Canada

The User as a Sensor: Navigating Users with Visual Impairments in
Indoor Spaces Using Tactile Landmarks (Page 425)
Navid Fallah, University of Nevada, Reno, USA
Ilias Apostolopoulos, University of Nevada, Reno, USA
Kostas Bekris, University of Nevada, Reno, USA
Eelke Folmer, University of Nevada, Reno, USA

Guidelines Are Only Half of the Story: Accessibility Problems
Encountered by Blind Users on the Web (Page 433)
Christopher Power, University of York, UK
André Freire, University of York, UK
Helen Petrie, University of York, UK
David Swallow, University of York, UK

128: Text Visualization
Session Chair: Jean-Daniel Fekete, INRIA, France

May 7, 2:30 PM
Room: 16AB

Interpretation and Trust: Designing Model-Driven Visualizations for Text
Analysis (Page 443)
Jason Chuang, Stanford University, USA
Daniel Ramage, Stanford University, USA
Christopher D. Manning, Stanford University, USA
Jeffrey Heer, Stanford University, USA

V-Model: A New Innovative Model to Chronologically Visualize Narrative
Clinical Texts (Page 453)
Heekyong Park, Seoul National University, Republic of Korea
Jinwook Choi, Seoul National University, Republic of Korea

JigsawMap: Connecting the Past to the Future by Mapping Historical
Textual Cadasters (Page 463)
Hyungmin Lee, Seoul National University, Republic of Korea
Sooyun Lee, Seoul National University, South Korea
Namwook Kim, Samsung Techwin, Republic of Korea
Jinwook Seo, Seoul National University, Republic of Korea

Semantic Interaction for Visual Text Analytics (Page 473)
Alex Endert, Virginia Tech, USA
Patrick Fiaux, Virginia Tech, USA
Chris North, Virginia Tech, USA

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

119: Brain & Body
Session Chair: Eve Hoggan, University of Helsinki, Finland

May 7, 2:30 PM
Room: Ballroom
E

(Return to Top)

Touché: Enhancing Touch Interaction on Humans, Screens, Liquids, and
Everyday Objects (Page 483)
Munehiko Sato, Disney Research, Pittsburgh & The University of Tokyo, USA
Ivan Poupyrev, Disney Research, Pittsburgh, USA
Chris Harrison, Disney Research, Pittsburgh & Carnegie Mellon University, USA

6 of 10

4/21/2012 10:48 AM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 7th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

Detecting Error-Related Negativity for Interaction Design (Page 493)
Chi Thanh Vi, University of Bristol, UK
Sriram Subramanian, University of Bristol, UK

Implanted User Interfaces (Page 503)
Christian Holz, Autodesk Research & Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Tovi Grossman, Autodesk Research, Canada
George Fitzmaurice, Autodesk Research, Canada
Anne Agur, University of Toronto, Canada

EEG Analysis of Implicit Human Visual Perception (Page 513)
Maryam Mustafa, Technical University of Braunschweig, Germany
Lea Lindemann, Technical University of Braunschweig, Germany
Marcus Magnor, Technical University of Braunschweig, Germany

Development and Evaluation of Interactive System for Synchronizing
Electric Taste and Visual Content (Page 517)
Hiromi Nakamura, Meiji University, Japan
Homei Miyashita, Meiji University, Japan

122: Empathy & Technology: Focus on the End User
Session Chair: Jettie Hoonhout, Philips Research Europe, The Netherlands

May 7, 2:30 PM
Room: Ballroom
G

Empathy, Participatory Design and People with Dementia (Page 521)
Stephen Lindsay, Newcastle University, UK
Daniel Jackson, Newcastle University, UK
Cassim Ladha, Newcastle University, UK
Karim Ladha, Newcastle University, UK
Katie Brittain, Newcastle University, UK
Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University, UK

From Death to Final Disposition: Roles of Technology in the
Post-Mortem Interval (Page 531)
Wendy Moncur, University of Dundee, UK
Jan Bikker, University of Dundee, UK
Elaine Kasket, London Metropolitan University, UK
John Troyer, University of Bath, UK

On Saliency, Affect and Focused Attention (Page 541)
Lori McCay-Peet, Dalhousie University, Canada
Mounia Lalmas, Yahoo! Research, Spain
Vidhya Navalpakkam, Yahoo! Research, USA

The Way I Talk to You: Sentiment Expression in an Organizational
Context (Page 551)
Jiang Yang, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA
Lada A. Adamic, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA
Mark S. Ackerman, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA
Zhen Wen, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Ching-Yung Lin, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA

125: Workplace
Session Chair: Volkmar Pipek, University of Siegen, Germany

May 7, 2:30 PM
Room: 19AB

"A Pace Not Dictated by Electrons": An Empirical Study of Work without
Email (Page 555)
Gloria J. Mark, University of California, Irvine, USA
Stephen Voida, University of California, Irvine, USA
Armand V. Cardello, U.S. Army Natick R, D & E Center, USA

"You've Got Video": Increasing Clickthrough When Sharing Enterprise
Video with Email (Page 565)
Mercan Topkara, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Shimei Pan, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Jennifer Lai, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Ahmet E. Dirik, Uludag University, Turkey
Steve Wood, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Jeff Boston, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA

Impression Formation in Corporate People Tagging (Page 569)
Daphne R. Raban, University of Haifa, Israel
Avinoam Danan, University of Haifa, Israel
Inbal Ronen, IBM Research, Israel

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

7 of 10

4/21/2012 10:48 AM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 7th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

Ido Guy, IBM Research, Israel

145: Uses of Media & Creation of Web Experiences
Session Chair: Jan Gulliksen, Uppsala University, USA

May 7, 4:30 PM
Room: 17AB

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Too Close for Comfort: A Study of the Effectiveness and Acceptability of
Rich-Media Personalized Advertising (Page 579)
Miguel Malheiros, University College London, UK
Charlene Jennett, University College London, UK
Snehalee Patel, University College London, UK
Sacha Brostoff, University College London, UK
M. Angela Sasse, University College London, UK

Why Johnny Can't Opt Out: A Usability Evaluation of Tools to Limit
Online Behavioral Advertising (Page 589)
Pedro G. Leon, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Blase Ur, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Rebecca Balebako, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Lorrie Cranor, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Richard Shay, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Yang Wang, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

<insert image>: Helping the Legal Use of Open Images (Page 599)
Herkko Hietanen, Alto University, Finland
Antti Salovaara, Alto University, Finland
Kumaripaba Athukorala, Alto University, Finland
Yefeng Liu, Waseda University, Japan

Fighting for My Space: Coping Mechanisms for SNS Boundary
Regulation (Page 609)
Pamela J. Wisniewski, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, USA
Heather Richter Lipford, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, USA
David C. Wilson, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, USA

135: Tools for Video + Images
Session Chair: Michael Rohs, University of Munich, Germany

May 7, 4:30 PM
Room: 18AB

TeleAdvisor: A Versatile Augmented Reality Tool for Remote
Assistance (Page 619)
Pavel Gurevich, IBM Research, Haifa, Israel
Joel Lanir, University of Haifa & IBM Research, Haifa, Israel
Benjamin Cohen, IBM Research, Israel
Ran Stone, IBM Research - Haifa, Israel

DragLocks: Handling Temporal Ambiguities in Direct Manipulation Video
Navigation (Page 623)
Thorsten Karrer, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Moritz Wittenhagen, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Jan Borchers, RWTH Aachen University, Germany

CamBlend: An Object Focused Collaboration Tool (Page 627)
James Norris, University of Nottingham, UK
Holger Schnädelbach, University of Nottingham, UK
Guoping Qiu, University of Nottingham, UK

Swift: Reducing the Effects of Latency in Online Video Scrubbing (Page
637)
Justin Matejka, Autodesk Research, Canada
Tovi Grossman, Autodesk Research, Canada
George Fitzmaurice, Autodesk Research, Canada

Video Summagator: An Interface for Video Summarization and
Navigation (Page 647)
Cuong Nguyen, Portland State University, USA
Yuzhen Niu, Portland State University, USA
Feng Liu, Portland State University, USA

Video as Memorabilia: User Needs for Collaborative Automatic Mobile
Video Production (Page 651)
Sami Vihavainen, Aalto University, Helsinki Institute for Information Technology,
Finland
Sujeet Mate, Nokia Research Center, Finland
Lassi Liikkanen, Aalto University, Helsinki Institute for Information Technology,
Finland

8 of 10

4/21/2012 10:48 AM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 7th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

Igor D. D. Curcio, Nokia Research Center, Finland

130: Sustainability & Behavior Change
Session Chair:

May 7, 4:30 PM
Room: 18CD

Collapse Informatics: Augmenting the Sustainability & ICT4D Discourse
in HCI (Page 655)
Bill Tomlinson, University of California, Irvine, USA
M. Six Silberman, Bureau of Economic Interpretation, USA
Donald Patterson, University of California, Irvine, USA
Yue Pan, Indiana University, USA
Eli Blevis, Indiana University, USA

Beyond Energy Monitors: Interaction, Energy, and Emerging Energy
Systems (Page 665)
James Pierce, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Eric Paulos, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

The Dubuque Water Portal: Evaluation of the Uptake, Use and Impact of
Residential Water Consumption Feedback (Page 675)
Thomas Erickson, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Mark Podlaseck, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Sambit Sahu, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Jing D. Dai, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Tian Chao, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Milind Naphade, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA

Embedded Interaction in a Water Fountain for Motivating Behavior
Change in Public Space (Page 685)
Ernesto Arroyo, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Spain
Leonardo Bonanni, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Nina Valkanova, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Spain

A Transformational Product to Improve Self-Control Strength: the
Chocolate Machine (Page 689)
Flavius Kehr, University of Koblenz-Landau, Germany
Marc Hassenzahl, Folkwang University of Arts, Germany
Matthias Laschke, Folkwang University of the Arts, Germany
Sarah Diefenbach, Folkwang University of Arts, Germany

129: Interacting With Robots & Agents
Session Chair: Antonello De Angeli, University of Trento, Italy

May 7, 4:30 PM
Room: 16AB

Ripple Effects of an Embedded Social Agent: A Field Study of a Social
Robot in the Workplace (Page 695)
Min Kyung Lee, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Sara Kiesler, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Jodi Forlizzi, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Paul Rybski, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Designing Effective Gaze Mechanisms for Virtual Agents (Page 705)
Sean Andrist, University of Wisconsin - Madison, USA
Tomislav Pejsa, University of Wisconsin - Madison, USA
Bilge Mutlu, University of Wisconsin - Madison, USA
Michael Gleicher, University of Wisconsin - Madison, USA

120: Hot Moves: Shape-changing & Thermal Interfaces
Session Chair: Lars Erik Holmquist, Yahoo!, USA

May 7, 4:30 PM
Room: Ballroom
E

"Baby It's Cold Outside": The Influence of Ambient Temperature and
Humidity on Thermal Feedback (Page 715)
Martin Halvey, University of Glasgow, UK
Graham Wilson, University of Glasgow, UK
Stephen A. Brewster, University of Glasgow, UK
Stephen A. Hughes, SAMH Engineering, Ireland

PINOKY: A Ring That Animates Your Plush Toys (Page 725)
Yuta Sugiura, Keio University & JST ERATO Igarashi Design Interface Project,
Japan
Calista Lee, Keio University & JST ERATO Igarashi Design Interface Project, Japan
Masayasu Ogata, Keio University & JST ERATO Igarashi Design Interface Project,
Japan
Anusha Withana, Keio University, Japan

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

9 of 10

4/21/2012 10:48 AM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 7th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

Yasutoshi Makino, Keio University, Japan
Daisuke Sakamoto, JST ERATO Igarashi Design Interface Project & The University
of Tokyo, Japan
Masahiko Inami, Keio University & JST ERATO Igarashi Design Interface Project,
Japan
Takeo Igarashi, JST ERATO Igarashi Design Interface Project & The University of
Tokyo, Japan

Shape-Changing Interfaces: A Review of the Design Space and Open
Research Questions (Page 735)
Majken Rasmussen, Aarhus School of Architecture, Denmark
Esben Pedersen, University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Marianne Petersen, University of Aarhus, Denmark
Kasper Hornbæk, University of Copenhagen, Denmark

MimicTile: A Variable Stiffness Deformable User Interface for Mobile
Devices (Page 745)
Yusuke Nakagawa, The University of Tokyo, Japan
Akiya Kamimura, National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science & Technology,
Japan
Yoichiro Kawaguchi, The University of Tokyo, Japan

Animating Paper Using Shape Memory Alloys (Page 749)
Jie Qi, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Leah Buechley, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA

123: Intimacy & Connection
Session Chair: Mary Czerwinski, Microsoft Research, USA

May 7, 4:30 PM
Room: Ballroom
G

Intimacy in Long-Distance Relationships Over Video Chat (Page 753)
Carman Neustaedter, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Saul Greenberg, University of Calgary, Canada

How Do Couples Use CheekTouch Over Phone Calls? (Page 763)
Young-Woo Park, Korea Advanced Institute of Science & Technology, Korea
Seok-Hyung Bae, Korea Advanced Institute of Science & Technology, Korea
Tek-Jin Nam, Korea Advanced Institute of Science & Technology, Korea

The Spread of Emotion via Facebook (Page 767)
Adam D. I. Kramer, Facebook, Inc., USA

It's Complicated: How Romantic Partners Use Facebook (Page 771)
Xuan Zhao, Cornell University, USA
Victoria Schwanda Sosik, Cornell University, USA
Dan Cosley, Cornell University, USA

Lost in Translation: Understanding the Possession of Digital Things in
the Cloud (Page 781)
William Odom, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Abigail Sellen, Microsoft Research, Cambridge, UK
Richard Harper, Microsoft Research, Cambridge, UK
Eno Thereska, Microsoft Research, Cambridge, UK

126: HCI4D: Business
Session Chair: Batya Friedman, University of Washington, USA

May 7, 4:30 PM
Room: 19AB

Understanding Negotiation in Airtime Sharing in Low-Income
Microenterprises (Page 791)
Nithya Sambasivan, University of California, USA
Ed Cutrell, Microsoft Research India, India

(Return to Top)

10 of 10

4/21/2012 10:48 AM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 8th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

Main Page

Conference Welcome

Society Welcome

About SIGCHI & ACM

CHI'12 Organization

CHI'12 Proceedings

(Papers & Notes)

Author Index

Sponsors & Supporters

(Return to Top)

CHI 2012 Proceedings Table of Contents
May 8th Paper & Note Sessions

CHI 2012 Papers & Notes Co-Chairs' Message

CHI 2012 Papers & Notes Associate Chairs

CHI 2012 Papers & Notes Additional Reviewers

Click here to see all the Papers & Note Sessions (Whole List)

Monday, May 7 AM Sessions

Monday, May 7 PM Sessions

Tuesday, May 8 AM Sessions

Tuesday, May 8 PM Sessions

Wednesday, May 9 AM Sessions

Wednesday, May 9 PM Sessions

Thursday, May 10 AM Sessions

Thursday, May 10 PM Sessions

This symbol identifies and links to the accompanying video.

This symbol identifies a best paper award winner.

This symbol identifies a best paper nominee.

183: Pen + Touch
Session Chair: Carman Neustaedter, Simon Fraser University, Canada

May 8, 9:30 AM
Room: 12AB

Natural Use Profiles for the Pen: An Empirical Exploration of Pressure,
Tilt, and Azimuth (Page 801)
Yizhong Xin, Kochi University of Technology & Shenyang University of Technology,
Japan
Xiaojun Bi, University of Toronto, Canada
Xiangshi Ren, Kochi University of Technology, Japan

A-Coord Input: Coordinating Auxiliary Input Streams for Augmenting
Contextual Pen-Based Interactions (Page 805)
Khalad Hasan, University of Manitoba, Canada
Xing-Dong Yang, University of Alberta, Canada
Andrea Bunt, University of Manitoba, Canada
Pourang Irani, University of Manitoba, Canada

Personalized Input: Improving Ten-Finger Touchscreen Typing Through
Automatic Adaptation (Page 815)
Leah Findlater, University of Maryland, College Park & University of Washington,
USA
Jacob O. Wobbrock, University of Washington, USA

Bimanual Marking Menu for Near Surface Interactions (Page 825)
François Guimbretière, Cornell University, USA
Chau Nguyen, Cornell University, USA

152: Affective Presence
Session Chair: Albrecht Schmidt, University of Stuttgart, Germany

May 8, 9:30 AM
Room: 17AB

(Return to Top)

Group Hedonic Balance and Pair Programming Performance: Affective
Interaction Dynamics as Indicators of Performance (Page 829)
Malte F. Jung, Stanford University, USA
Jan Chong, OnLive, USA
Larry J. Leifer, Stanford University, USA

1 of 10

4/21/2012 10:50 AM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 8th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

Learning How to Feel Again: Towards Affective Workplace Presence and
Communication Technologies (Page 839)
Anbang Xu, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA
Jacob T. Biehl, FX Palo Alto Laboratory, Inc., USA
Eleanor Rieffel, FX Palo Alto Laboratory, Inc., USA
Thea Turner, FX Palo Alto Laboratory, Inc., USA
William van Melle, FX Palo Alto Laboratory, Inc., USA

AffectAura: an Intelligent System for Emotional Memory (Page 849)
Daniel McDuff, Microsoft Research & Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Amy Karlson, Microsoft Research, USA
Ashish Kapoor, Microsoft Research, USA
Asta Roseway, Microsoft Research, USA
Mary Czerwinski, Microsoft Research, USA

Understanding Heart Rate Sharing: Towards Unpacking Physiosocial
Space (Page 859)
Petr Slovák, Vienna University of Technology, Austria
Joris H. Janssen, Philips Research & Eindhoven University of Technology, The
Netherlands
Geraldine Fitzpatrick, Vienna University of Technology, Austria

155: Games: Community + Communication
Session Chair: Steve Feiner, Columbia University, USA

May 8, 9:30 AM
Room: 18AB

Athletes and Street Acrobats: Designing for Play as a Community Value
in Parkour (Page 869)
Annika Waern, Stockholm University, Sweden
Elena Balan, Mobile Life Centre, Sweden
Kim Nevelsteen, Mobile Life Centre & Interactive Institute, Sweden

Communication and Commitment in an Online Game Team (Page 879)
Laura Dabbish, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Robert Kraut, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Jordan Patton, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Twiage: A Game for Finding Good Advice on Twitter (Page 889)
Max van Kleek, University of Southampton, UK
Daniel Alexander Smith, University of Southampton, UK
Ruben Stranders, University of Southampton, UK
m.c. schraefel, University of Southampton, UK

158: Healthcare + Technology: Putting Patients First
Session Chair: Katie Siek, University of Colorado at Boulder, USA

May 8, 9:30 AM
Room: 18CD

Findings of e-ESAS: A Mobile Based Symptom Monitoring System for
Breast Cancer Patients in Rural Bangladesh (Page 899)
Munirul M. Haque, Marquette University, USA
Ferdaus Kawsar, Marquette University, USA
Md. Adibuzzaman, Marquette University, USA
Sheikh I. Ahamed, Marquette University, USA
Richard Love, International Breast Cancer Research Foundation, USA
Rumana Dowla, Amader Gram, Bangladesh
David Roe, International Breast Cancer Research Foundation, USA
Syed Mozammel Hossain, Amader Gram, Bangladesh
Reza Selim, Amader Gram, Bangladesh

Problems of Data Mobility and Reuse in the Provision of
Computer-Based Training for Screening Mammography (Page 909)
Mark Hartswood, University of Manchester, UK
Rob Procter, University of Manchester, UK
Paul Taylor, University College London, UK
Lilian Blot, University of York, UK
Stuart Anderson, University of Edinburgh, UK
Mark Rouncefield, Lancaster University, UK
Roger Slack, University of Bangor, UK

Supporting Visual Assessment of Food and Nutrient Intake in a Clinical
Care Setting (Page 919)
Rob Comber, Newcastle University, UK
Jack Weeden, Newcastle University, UK
Jennifer Hoare, Newcastle University, UK

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

2 of 10

4/21/2012 10:50 AM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 8th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

Stephen Lindsay, Newcastle University, UK
Gemma Teal, Glasgow School of Art,, UK
Alastair Macdonald, Glasgow School of Art, UK
Lisa Methven, University of Reading, UK
Paula Moynihan, Newcastle University, UK
Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University, UK

Tackling Dilemmas in Supporting "The Whole Person" in Online Patient
Communities (Page 923)
Jina Huh, University of Washington, USA
Rupa Patel, University of Washington, USA
Wanda Pratt, University of Washington, USA

Interaction Proxemics and Image Use in Neurosurgery (Page 927)
Helena M. Mentis, Microsoft Research, UK
Kenton O'Hara, Microsoft Research, UK
Abigail Sellen, Microsoft Research, UK
Rikin Trivedi, Addenbrookes Hospital, UK

149: Critical Perspectives on Design
Session Chair: Peter Wright, Newcastle University, UK

May 8, 9:30 AM
Room: 16AB

What Should We Expect From Research Through Design? (Page 937)
William Gaver, Goldsmiths, University of London, UK

Sustainably Unpersuaded: How Persuasion Narrows Our Vision of
Sustainability (Page 947)
Hrönn Brynjarsdóttir, Cornell University, USA
Maria Håkansson, Cornell University, USA
James Pierce, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Eric P. S. Baumer, Cornell University, USA
Carl DiSalvo, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Phoebe Sengers, Cornell University, USA

Undesigning Technology: Considering the Negation of Design by
Design (Page 957)
James Pierce, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Affordances in HCI: Toward a Mediated Action Perspective (Page 967)
Victor Kaptelinin, University of Bergen, Norway
Bonnie Nardi, University of California, Irvine, USA

168: I Am How I Touch: Authenticating Users
Session Chair: Xiang Cao, Microsoft Research Asia, China

May 8, 9:30 AM
Room: Ballroom
E

Biometric-Rich Gestures: A Novel Approach to Authentication on
Multi-Touch Devices (Page 977)
Napa Sae-Bae, Polytechnic Institute of NYU, USA
Kowsar Ahmed, Polytechnic Institute of NYU, USA
Katherine Isbister, Polytechnic Institute of NYU, USA
Nasir Memon, Polytechnic Institute of NYU, USA

Touch Me Once and I Know It's You! Implicit Authentication Based on
Touch Screen Patterns (Page 987)
Alexander De Luca, University of Munich, Germany
Alina Hang, University of Munich, Germany
Frederik Brudy, University of Munich, Germany
Christian Lindner, University of Munich, Germany
Heinrich Hussmann, University of Munich, Germany

WebTicket: Account Management Using Printable Tokens (Page 997)
Eiji Hayashi, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Bryan A. Pendleton, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Fatih Kursat Ozenc, Autodesk Inc., USA
Jason I. Hong, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

186: Visionary Models + Tools
Session Chair: Duncan Brumby, University College London, UK

May 8, 9:30 AM
Room: Ballroom
G

(Return to Top)

Color Naming Models for Color Selection, Image Editing and Palette
Design (Page 1007)
Jeffrey Heer, Stanford University, USA
Maureen Stone, Tableau Software, USA

3 of 10

4/21/2012 10:50 AM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 8th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

The Untapped Promise of Digital Mind Maps (Page 1017)
Haakon Faste, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Honray Lin, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Delta: A Tool for Representing and Comparing Workflows (Page 1027)
Nicholas Kong, Autodesk Research & University of California, Berkeley, USA
Tovi Grossman, Autodesk Research, Canada
Björn Hartmann, University of California, Berkeley, USA
George Fitzmaurice, Autodesk Research, Canada
Maneesh Agrawala, University of California, Berkeley, USA

QuickDraw: Improving Drawing Experience for Geometric Diagrams (Page
1037)
Salman Cheema, University of Central Florida, USA
Sumit Gulwani, Microsoft Research, USA
Joseph J. LaViola, Jr., University of Central Florida, USA

147: It's a Big Web!
Session Chair: Wayne Lutters, University of Maryland, Baltimore County, USA

May 8, 9:30 AM
Room: 19AB

Talking in Circles: Selective Sharing in Google+ (Page 1065)
Sanjay Kairam, Stanford Unviersity, USA
Michael J. Brzozowski, Google, Inc., USA
David Huffaker, Google, Inc., USA
Ed H. Chi, Google, Inc., USA

Omnipedia: Bridging the Wikipedia Language Gap (Page 1075)
Patti Bao, Northwestern University, USA
Brent Hecht, Northwestern University, USA
Samuel Carton, Northwestern University, USA
Mahmood Quaderi, Northwestern University, USA
Michael Horn, Northwestern University, USA
Darren Gergle, Northwestern University, USA

Social Annotations in Web Search (Page 1085)
Aditi Muralidharan, University of California, Berkeley, USA
Zoltan Gyongyi, Google, Inc., USA
Ed H. Chi, Google, Inc., USA

162: Tools & Stats in Evaluation Studies
Session Chair: Jeff Heer, Stanford University, USA

May 8, 11:30 AM
Room: 12AB

Comparing Averages in Time Series Data (Page 1095)
Michael Correll, University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA
Danielle Albers, University of Wisconsin - Madison, USA
Steven Franconeri, Northwestern University, USA
Michael Gleicher, University of Wisconsin - Madison, USA

Rethinking Statistical Analysis Methods for CHI (Page 1105)
Maurits Kaptein, Eindhoven University of Technology & Philips Research, The
Netherlands
Judy Robertson, Heriot-Watt University, UK

A Spatiotemporal Visualization Approach for the Analysis of Gameplay
Data (Page 1115)
Günter Wallner, University of Applied Arts Vienna, Austria
Simone Kriglstein, University of Vienna, Austria

153: Values in Research Practice
Session Chair: Giulio Jacucci, Helsinki Institute for Information Technology, Finland

May 8, 11:30 AM
Room: 17AB

Next Steps for Value Sensitive Design (Page 1125)
Alan Borning, University of Washington, USA
Michael Muller, IBM Research, USA

Being in the Thick of In-the-Wild Studies: the Challenges and Insights of
Researcher Participation (Page 1135)
Rose Johnson, University College London, UK
Yvonne Rogers, University College London, UK
Janet van der Linden, The Open University, UK
Nadia Bianchi-Berthouze, University College London, UK

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

4 of 10

4/21/2012 10:50 AM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 8th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

The Envisioning Cards: A Toolkit for Catalyzing Humanistic and
Technical Imaginations (Page 1145)
Batya Friedman, University of Washington, USA
David G. Hendry, University of Washington, USA

157: Literacy on the Margin
Session Chair: Juan Pablo Hourcade, University of Iowa, USA

May 8, 11:30 AM
Room: 18AB

Improving Literacy in Developing Countries Using Speech Recognition-
Supported Games on Mobile Devices (Page 1149)
Anuj Kumar, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Pooja Reddy, American Institute for Research, USA
Anuj Tewari, University of California, Berkeley, USA
Rajat Agrawal, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Matthew Kam, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Interactive Visualization for Low Literacy Users: From Lessons Learnt to
Design (Page 1159)
Neesha Kodagoda, Middlesex University, UK
B L William Wong, Middlesex University, UK
Chris Rooney, Middlesex University, UK
Nawaz Khan, Middlesex University, UK

159: Participatory Design with Older People
Session Chair: Steven Dow, Carnegie Mellon University, UK

May 8, 11:30 AM
Room: 18CD

Questionable Concepts: Critique as Resource for Designing with Eighty
Somethings (Page 1169)
John Vines, Northumbria University & Newcastle University, UK
Mark Blythe, Northumbria University, UK
Stephen Lindsay, Newcastle University, UK
Paul Dunphy, Newcastle University, UK
Andrew Monk, University of York, UK
Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University, UK

Senior Designers: Empowering Seniors to Design Enjoyable Falls
Rehabilitation Tools (Page 1179)
Stephen Uzor, Glasgow Caledonian University, UK
Lynne Baillie, Glasgow Caledonian University, UK
Dawn A. Skelton, Glasgow Caledonian University, UK

Cheque Mates: Participatory Design of Digital Payments with Eighty
Somethings (Page 1189)
John Vines, Northumbria University & Newcastle University, UK
Mark Blythe, Northumbria University, UK
Paul Dunphy, Newcastle University, UK
Vasillis Vlachokyriakos, Newcastle University, UK
Isaac Teece, Newcastle University, UK
Andrew Monk, University of York, UK
Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University, UK

Engaging Older People Using Participatory Design (Page 1199)
Stephen Lindsay, Newcastle University, UK
Daniel Jackson, Newcastle University, UK
Guy Schofield, Newcastle University, UK
Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University, UK

150: Personas & Design
Session Chair: Shaowen Bardzell, Indiana University, USA

May 8, 11:30 AM
Room: 16AB

(Return to Top)

Personas and Decision Making in the Design Process: An Ethnographic
Case Study (Page 1209)
Erin Friess, University of North Texas, USA

How Do Designers and User Experience Professionals Actually Perceive
and Use Personas? (Page 1219)
Tara Matthews, IBM Research - Almaden, USA
Tejinder K. Judge, Google Inc., USA
Steve Whittaker, University of California, Santa Cruz, USA

5 of 10

4/21/2012 10:50 AM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 8th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

141: Kick it! Interfaces for Feet & Walking
Session Chair: Yang Li, USTB, China

May 8, 11:30 AM
Room: Ballroom
E

Putting Your Best Foot Forward: Investigating Real-World Mappings for
Foot-Based Gestures (Page 1229)
Jason Alexander, Lancaster University, UK
Teng Han, University of Bristol, UK
William Judd, University of Bristol, UK
Pourang Irani, University of Manitoba, Canada
Sriram Subramanian, University of Bristol, UK

ShoeSense: A New Perspective on Gestural Interaction and Wearable
Applications (Page 1239)
Gilles Bailly, TU Berlin, Germany
Jörg Müller, TU Berlin, Germany
Michael Rohs, University of Munich, Germany
Daniel Wigdor, University of Toronto, Canada
Sven Kratz, University of Munich, Germany

Bootstrapper: Recognizing Tabletop Users by Their Shoes (Page 1249)
Stephan R. Richter, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Christian Holz, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Patrick Baudisch, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany

179: Music Across CHI
Session Chair: Rebecca Fiebrink, Princeton University, USA

May 8, 11:30 AM
Room: Ballroom
G

Using Rhythmic Patterns as an Input Method (Page 1253)
Emilien Ghomi, Univ Paris-Sud & CNRS, France
Guillaume Faure, Univ Paris-Sud & CNRS, France
Stéphane Huot, Univ Paris-Sud & INRIA, France
Olivier Chapuis, Univ Paris-Sud & CNRS, France
Michel Beaudouin-Lafon, Univ Paris-Sud & CNRS & INRIA, France

PULSE: The Design and Evaluation of an Auditory Display to Provide a
Social Vibe (Page 1263)
David McGookin, University of Glasgow, UK
Stephen Brewster, University of Glasgow, UK

Listening Factors: A Large-Scale Principal Components Analysis of
Long-Term Music Listening Histories (Page 1273)
Dominikus Baur, University of Munich, Germany
Jennifer Büttgen, University of Munich, Germany
Andreas Butz, University of Munich, Germany

142: Space: The Interaction Frontier
Session Chair: Chris Harrison, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

May 8, 11:30 AM
Room: 19AB

Going Beyond the Surface: Studying Multi-Layer Interaction Above the
Tabletop (Page 1277)
Martin Spindler, University of Magdeburg, Germany
Marcel Martsch, University of Magdeburg, Germany
Raimund Dachselt, University of Magdeburg, Germany

A Comparative Evaluation of Finger and Pen Stroke Gestures (Page 1287)
Huawei Tu, Kochi University of Technology, Japan
Xiangshi Ren, Kochi University of Technology, Japan
Shumin Zhai, Google Research, USA

A Handle Bar Metaphor for Virtual Object Manipulation with Mid-Air
Interaction (Page 1297)
Peng Song, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
Wooi Boon Goh, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
William Hutama, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
Chi-Wing Fu, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
Xiaopei Liu, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore

Fly: Studying Recall, Macrostructure Understanding, and User
Experience of Canvas Presentations (Page 1307)
Leonhard Lichtschlag, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Thomas Hess, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Thorsten Karrer, RWTH Aachen University, Germany

6 of 10

4/21/2012 10:50 AM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 8th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

Jan Borchers, RWTH Aachen University, Germany

163: The Tools of the Trade
Session Chair: Jennifer Thom-Santelli, IBM Research, USA

May 8, 2:30 PM
Room: 12AB

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

A Hybrid Mass Participation Approach to Mobile Software Trials (Page 1311)
Alistair Morrison, University of Glasgow, UK
Donald McMillan, University of Glasgow, UK
Stuart Reeves, University of Nottingham, UK
Scott Sherwood, University of Glasgow, UK
Matthew Chalmers, University of Glasgow, UK

"Yours Is Better!" Participant Response Bias in HCI (Page 1321)
Nicola Dell, University of Washington, USA
Vidya Vaidyanathan, San Jose State University, USA
Indrani Medhi, Microsoft Research India, India
Edward Cutrell, Microsoft Research India, India
William Thies, Microsoft Research India, India

Digital Pen and Paper Practices in Observational Research (Page 1331)
Nadir Weibel, University of California, San Diego, USA
Adam Fouse, University of California, San Diego, USA
Colleen Emmenegger, University of California, San Diego, USA
Whitney Friedman, University of California, San Diego, USA
Edwin Hutchins, University of California, San Diego, USA
James Hollan, University of California, San Diego, USA

User See, User Point: Gaze and Cursor Alignment in Web Search (Page
1341)
Jeff Huang, University of Washington, USA
Ryen W. White, Microsoft Research, USA
Georg Buscher, Microsoft Bing, USA

154: Publics & Civic Virtues
Session Chair: Ann Light, Northumbria University,

May 8, 2:30 PM
Room: 17AB

Participation and Publics: Supporting Community Engagement (Page 1351)
Christopher A. Le Dantec, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA

Viewpoint: Empowering Communities with Situated Voting Devices (Page
1361)
Nick Taylor, Newcastle University, UK
Justin Marshall, University College Falmouth, UK
Alicia Blum-Ross, University of Surrey, UK
John Mills, University of Central Lancashire, UK
Jon Rogers, University of Dundee, UK
Paul Egglestone, University of Central Lancashire, UK
David M. Frohlich, University of Surrey, UK
Peter Wright, Newcastle University, UK
Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University, UK

Examining Technology That Supports Community Policing (Page 1371)
Sheena Lewis, Northwestern University, USA
Dan A. Lewis, Northwestern University, USA

156: Promoting Educational Opportunity
Session Chair: Anthony Hornof, University of Oregon, UK

May 8, 2:30 PM
Room: 18AB

Collaboration in Cognitive Tutor Use in Latin America: Field Study and
Design Recommendations (Page 1381)
Amy Ogan, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Erin Walker, Arizona State University, USA
Ryan S.J.D. Baker, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, USA
Genaro Rebolledo Mendez, Universidad Veracruzana, Mexico
Maynor Jimenez Castro, Universidad de Costa Rica, Costa Rica
Tania Laurentino, SENAI Institute, Brazil
Adriana de Carvalho, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Evaluating the Implicit Acquisition of Second Language Vocabulary
Using a Live Wallpaper (Page 1391)
David Dearman, University of Toronto & Nokia Research Center, USA
Khai N. Truong, University of Toronto, Canada

7 of 10

4/21/2012 10:50 AM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 8th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

160: Interfaces for Health & Well Being
Session Chair: Ian Li, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

May 8, 2:30 PM
Room: 18CD

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

ShutEye: Encouraging Awareness of Healthy Sleep Recommendations
with a Mobile, Peripheral Display (Page 1401)
Jared S. Bauer, University of Washington, USA
Sunny Consolvo, Intel Labs, Seattle, USA
Benjamin Greenstein, Google, USA
Jonathan Schooler, University of Washington, USA
Eric Wu, University of Washington, USA
Nathaniel F. Watson, University of Washington, USA
Julie A. Kientz, University of Washington, USA

Using Mobile Phones to Present Medical Information to Hospital
Patients (Page 1411)
Laura Pfeifer Vardoulakis, Microsoft Research & Northeastern University, USA
Amy K. Karlson, Microsoft Research, USA
Dan Morris, Microsoft Research, USA
Greg Smith, Microsoft Research, USA
Justin Gatewood, MedStar Institute for Innovation, USA
Desney S. Tan, Microsoft Research, USA

Engagement with Online Mental Health Interventions: An Exploratory
Clinical Study of a Treatment for Depression (Page 1421)
Gavin Doherty, Trinity College Dublin, Ireland
David Coyle, University of Bristol, UK
John Sharry, Mater University Hospital, Ireland

Best Intentions: Health Monitoring Technology and Children (Page 1431)
Tammy Toscos, Indiana University-Purdue University, USA
Kay Connelly, Indiana University, USA
Yvonne Rogers, University College London, UK

151: Needle in the Haystack
Session Chair: Mark Dunlop, University of Strathclyde, UK

May 8, 2:30 PM
Room: 16AB

Representing "Too small to see" as "Too small to see" with Temporal
Representation (Page 1441)
Minyoung Song, University of Michigan, USA
Chris Quintana, University of Michigan, USA

The Case of the Missed Icon: Change Blindness on Mobile Devices (Page
1451)
Thomas Davies, University College London, UK
Ashweeni K. Beeharee, University College London, UK

The Bohemian Bookshelf: Supporting Serendipitous Book Discoveries
Through Information Visualization (Page 1461)
Alice Thudt, University of Munich, Germany
Uta Hinrichs, University of Calgary, Canada
Sheelagh Carpendale, University of Calgary, Canada

Reactive Information Foraging: An Empirical Investigation of
Theory-Based Recommender Systems for Programmers (Page 1471)
David Piorkowski, Oregon State University, USA
Scott D. Fleming, University of Memphis, USA
Christopher Scaffidi, Oregon State University, USA
Christopher Bogart, Oregon State University, USA
Margaret Burnett, Oregon State University, USA
Bonnie E. John, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Rachel K. E. Bellamy, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Calvin Swart, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA

(Return to Top)

146: Understanding Online Communication
Session Chair: Sharoda Paul, GE Global Research, USA

Profanity Use in Online Communities (Page 1481)
Sara Owsley Sood, Pomona College, USA
Judd Antin, Yahoo! Research, USA
Elizabeth F. Churchill, Yahoo! Research, USA

May 8, 2:30 PM
Room: Ballroom
E

8 of 10

4/21/2012 10:50 AM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 8th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

Consensus Building in Open Source User Interface Design
Discussions (Page 1491)
Roshanak Zilouchian Moghaddam, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA
Brian P. Bailey, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA
Wai-Tat Fu, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA

"I Can't get no sleep": Discussing #insomnia on Twitter (Page 1501)
Sue Jamison-Powell, University of Lincoln, UK
Conor Linehan, University of Lincoln, UK
Laura Daley, University of Lincoln, UK
Andrew Garbett, University of Lincoln, UK
Shaun Lawson, University of Lincoln, UK

Introducing the Ambivalent Socialiser (Page 1511)
Bernd Ploderer, The University of Melbourne, Australia
Wally Smith, The University of Melbourne, Australia
Steve Howard, The University of Melbourne, Australia
Jon Pearce, The University of Melbourne, Australia
Ron Borland, The University of Melbourne & Cancer Council Victoria, Australia

Twitter and the Development of an Audience: Those Who Stay on Topic
Thrive! (Page 1515)
Yi-Chia Wang, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Robert Kraut, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

132: Performative Emergency Simulation
Session Chair: Olav W. Bertelsen, Aarhus University, The Netherlands

May 8, 2:30 PM
Room: Ballroom
G

"Act Natural": Instructions, Compliance and Accountability in
Ambulatory Experiences (Page 1519)
Peter Tolmie, University of Nottingham, UK
Steve Benford, University of Nottingham, UK
Martin Flintham, University of Nottingham, UK
Patrick Brundell, University of Nottingham, UK
Matt Adams, Blast Theory, UK
Nicholas Tandavantij, Blast Theory, UK
Ju Row-Farr, Blast Theory, UK
Gabriella Giannachi, The University of Exeter, UK

Supporting Improvisation Work in Inter-Organizational Crisis
Management (Page 1529)
Benedikt Ley, University of Siegen, Germany
Volkmar Pipek, University of Siegen, Germany
Christian Reuter, University of Siegen, Germany
Torben Wiedenhoefer, University of Siegen, Germany

148: Crowdsourcing & Peer Production I
Session Chair: Mira Dontcheva, Adobe Advanced Technology Labs, USA

May 8, 2:30 PM
Room: 19AB

Communitysourcing: Engaging Local Crowds to Perform Expert Work
Via Physical Kiosks (Page 1539)
Kurtis Heimerl, University of California, Berkeley, USA
Brian Gawalt, University of California, Berkeley, USA
Kuang Chen, University of California, Berkeley, USA
Tapan S. Parikh, University of California, Berkeley, USA
Björn Hartmann, University of California, Berkeley, USA

LemonAid: Selection-Based Crowdsourced Contextual Help for Web
Applications (Page 1549)
Parmit K. Chilana, University of Washington, USA
Amy J. Ko, University of Washington, USA
Jacob O. Wobbrock, University of Washington, USA

Is This What You Meant? Promoting Listening on the Web with
Reflect (Page 1559)
Travis Kriplean, University of Washington, USA
Michael Toomim, University of Washington, USA
Jonathan Morgan, University of Washington, USA
Alan Borning, University of Washington, USA
Amy J. Ko, University of Washington, USA

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

9 of 10

4/21/2012 10:50 AM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 8th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

#EpicPlay: Crowd-sourcing Sports Video Highlights (Page 1569)
Anthony Tang, University of Calgary, Canada
Sebastian Boring, University of Calgary, Canada

10 of 10

4/21/2012 10:50 AM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 9th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

CHI 2012 Proceedings Table of Contents
May 9th Paper & Note Sessions

CHI 2012 Papers & Notes Co-Chairs' Message

CHI 2012 Papers & Notes Associate Chairs

CHI 2012 Papers & Notes Additional Reviewers

Click here to see all the Papers & Note Sessions (Whole List)

Monday, May 7 AM Sessions

Monday, May 7 PM Sessions

Tuesday, May 8 AM Sessions

Tuesday, May 8 PM Sessions

Wednesday, May 9 AM Sessions

Wednesday, May 9 PM Sessions

Thursday, May 10 AM Sessions

Thursday, May 10 PM Sessions

This symbol identifies and links to the accompanying video.

This symbol identifies a best paper award winner.

This symbol identifies a best paper nominee.

Main Page

Conference Welcome

Society Welcome

About SIGCHI & ACM

CHI'12 Organization

CHI'12 Proceedings

(Papers & Notes)

Author Index

Sponsors & Supporters

171: Pasts + Futures
Session Chair: Siân Lindley, Microsoft Research Cambridge, USA

May 9, 9:30 AM
Room: 12AB

(Return to Top)

Envisioning Ubiquitous Computing (Page 1573)
Stuart Reeves, University of Nottingham, UK

Steampunk as Design Fiction (Page 1583)
Theresa Jean Tanenbaum, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Karen Tanenbaum,  Simon Fraser University, Canada
Ron Wakkary, Simon Fraser University, Canada

Revisiting the Jacquard Loom: Threads of History and Current Patterns
in HCI (Page 1593)
Ylva Fernaeus, Mobile Life, KTH, Sweden
Martin Jonsson, Södertörn University, Sweden
Jakob Tholander, Stockholm University, Sweden

176: Mobile Computing & Interaction
Session Chair: Daniel Fallman, Umea University, Sweden

May 9, 9:30 AM
Room: 17AB

(Return to Top)

Drawing the City: Differing Perceptions of the Urban Environment (Page
1603)
Frank Bentley, Motorola Mobility, USA
Henriette Cramer, Mobile Life Centre at SICS, Sweden
Santosh Basapur, Motorola Mobility, USA
William Hamilton, Texas A&M University, USA

Characterizing Local Interests and Local Knowledge (Page 1607)
Ryen W. White, Microsoft Research, USA
Georg Buscher, Microsoft Bing, USA

Augmenting Spatial Skills with Mobile Devices (Page 1611)
Doug Boari, University of Bristol, UK
Mike Fraser, University of Bristol, UK
Danaë Stanton Fraser, University of Bath, UK
Kirsten Cater, University of Bristol, UK

1 of 12

4/23/2012 2:59 PM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 9th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

The Normal Natural Troubles of Driving with GPS
(Page 1621)
Barry Brown, Stockholm University, Sweden
Eric Laurier, University of Edinburgh, UK

193: Future Design
Session Chair: Orit Shaer, Wellesley College, USA

May 9, 9:30 AM
Room: 18AB

Implicit Imitation in Social Tagging:
Familiarity and Semantic Reconstruction (Page 1631)
Paul Seitlinger, Graz University of Technology, Austria
Tobias Ley, Tallinn University, Estonia

Annotating BI Visualization Dashboards:
Needs & Challenges (Page 1641)
Micheline Elias, Ecole Centrale Paris, France
Anastasia Bezerianos, Université Paris-Sud & CNRS - INRIA, France

Choosing to Interleave:
Human Error and Information Access Cost (Page 1651)
Jonathan Back, University College London, UK
Anna L. Cox, University College London, UK
Duncan P. Brumby, University College London, UK

167: Visualization + Visual Analysis
Session Chair: Luciano Gamberini, University of Padova, Italy

May 9, 9:30 AM
Room: 16AB

Analysis Within and Between Graphs: Observed User Strategies in
Immunobiology Visualization (Page 1655)
Caroline Ziemkiewicz, Brown University, USA
Steven R. Gomez, Brown University, USA
David H. Laidlaw, Brown University, USA

Understanding the Verbal Language and Structure
of End-User Descriptions of Data Visualizations (Page 1659)
Ronald Metoyer, Microsoft Research & Oregon State University, USA
Bongshin Lee, Microsoft Research, USA
Nathalie Henry Riche, Microsoft Research, USA
Mary Czerwinski, Microsoft Research, USA

GraphTrail: Analyzing Large Multivariate, Heterogeneous Networks
While Supporting Exploration History (Page 1663)
Cody Dunne, Microsoft Research & University of Maryland, USA
Nathalie Henry Riche, Microsoft Research, USA
Bongshin Lee, Microsoft Research, USA
Ronald A. Metoyer, Oregon State University, USA
George G. Robertson, Microsoft Research, USA

Trust Me, I'm Partially Right: Incremental Visualization Lets Analysts
Explore Large Datasets Faster (Page 1673)
Danyel Fisher, Microsoft Research, USA
Igor Popov, University of Southampton, UK
Steven M. Drucker, Microsoft Research, USA
m.c. schraefel, University of Southampton, UK

164: Outside the Box
Session Chair: Shahram Izadi, Microsoft Research, USA

May 9, 9:30 AM
Room: Ballroom
E

Unlocking the Expressivity of Point Lights (Page 1683)
Chris Harrison, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
John Horstman, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Gary Hsieh, Michigan State University, USA
Scott E. Hudson, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Virtual Projection: Exploring Optical Projection as a Metaphor for Multi-
Device Interaction (Page 1693)
Dominikus Baur, University of Munich, Germany
Sebastian Boring, University of Calgary, Canada
Steven Feiner, Columbia University, USA

Creating and Using Interactive Narratives: Reading and Writing
Branching Comics (Page 1703)
Daniel Andrews, The University of Birmingham, UK

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

2 of 12

4/23/2012 2:59 PM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 9th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

Chris Baber, The University of Birmingham, UK
Sergey Efremov, Moscow State Institute of Electronics and Mathematics, Russia
Mikhail Komarov, Moscow State Institute of Electronics and Mathematics, Russia

TimeBlocks: "Mom Can I Have Another Block of Time?" (Page 1713)
Eiji Hayashi, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Nastasha Tan, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Martina A. Rau, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Sriram Ramasubramanian, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Zhe Han Neo, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Eric Paulos, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

165: Sensing + Sensible Interaction
Session Chair: Michael Haller, Media Interaction Lab, Austria

May 9, 9:30 AM
Room: Ballroom
G

Rewarding the Original: Explorations in Joint User-Sensor Motion
Spaces (Page 1717)
John Williamson, University of Glasgow, UK
Roderick Murray-Smith, University of Glasgow, UK

Vignette: Interactive Texture Design and Manipulation with Freeform
Gestures for Pen-and-Ink Illustration (Page 1727)
Rubaiat Habib Kazi, JST ERATO Igarashi Design Interface Project & National
University of Singapore, Singapore
Takeo Igarashi, JST ERATO Igarashi Design Interface Project & The University of
Tokyo, Japan
Shengdong Zhao, National University of Singapore, Singapore
Richard C. Davis, Singapore Management University, Singapore

Instructing People for Training Gestural Interactive Systems (Page 1737)
Simon Fothergill, University of Cambridge, UK
Helena M. Mentis, Microsoft Research, UK
Pushmeet Kohli, Microsoft Research, UK
Sebastian Nowozin, Microsoft Research, UK

Making Gestural Input From Arm-Worn Inertial Sensors More
Practical (Page 1747)
Louis Kratz, Microsoft Research & Drexel University, USA
T. Scott Saponas, Microsoft Research, USA
Daniel Morris, Microsoft Research, USA

Clipoid: An Augmentable Short-Distance Wireless Toolkit for
"Accidentally Smart Home" Environments (Page 1751)
Jong-bum Woo, Korea Advanced Institute of Science & Technology, Republic of
Korea
Youn-kyung Lim, Korea Advanced Institute of Science & Technology, Republic of
Korea

214: Time + Task: Managing Work Life
Session Chair: Laura Dabbish, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

May 9, 9:30 AM
Room: 19AB

"I'd Never Get Out of This !?$%# Office" Redesigning Time Management
for the Enterprise (Page 1755)
Casey Dugan, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Werner Geyer, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Michael Muller, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Abel N. Valente, IBM Argentina, Argentina
Katherine James, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Steve Levy, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Li-Te Cheng, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Elizabeth Daly, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Beth Brownholtz, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA

Do You See That I See? Effects of Perceived Visibility on Awareness
Checking Behavior (Page 1765)
Jeremy Birnholtz, Cornell University, USA
Nanyi Bi, Cornell University, USA
Susan Fussell, Cornell University, USA

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

143: Search Interfaces
Session Chair: Remco Chang, Tufts University, USA

May 9, 11:30 AM
Room: 12AB

3 of 12

4/23/2012 2:59 PM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 9th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

Best Faces Forward: A Large-Scale Study of People Search in the
Enterprise (Page 1775)
Ido Guy, IBM Research, Israel
Sigalit Ur, IBM Research, Israel
Inbal Ronen, IBM Research, Israel
Sara Weber, IBM CIO's Office, USA
Tolga Oral, IBM CIO's Office, USA

The Search Dashboard: How Reflection and Comparison Impact Search
Behavior (Page 1785)
Scott Bateman, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Jaime Teevan, Microsoft Research, USA
Ryen W. White, Microsoft Research, USA

Building the Trail Best Traveled: Effects of Domain Knowledge on Web
Search Trailblazing (Page 1795)
Xiaojun Yuan, State University of New York, USA
Ryen W. White, Microsoft Research, USA

140: Music
Session Chair: Karyn Moffatt, McGill University, Canada

May 9, 11:30 AM
Room: 17AB

(Return to Top)

Digging in the Crates: An Ethnographic Study of DJs Work (Page 1805)
Ahmed Y. Ahmed, University of Nottingham, UK
Steve Benford, University of Nottingham, UK
Andy Crabtree, University of Nottingham, UK

Becoming-Sound: Affect and Assemblage in Improvisational Digital
Music Making (Page 1815)
Ben Swift, Australian National University, Australia

Interactive Paper Substrates to Support Musical Creation (Page 1825)
Jérémie Garcia, INRIA & Univ Paris-Sud & IRCAM, France
Theophanis Tsandilas, INRIA & Univ Paris-Sud, France
Carlos Agon, IRCAM, France
Wendy E. Mackay, INRIA & Stanford University, France

DiskPlay: In-Track Navigation on Turntables (Page 1829)
Florian Heller, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Jan Borchers, RWTH Aachen University, Germany

177: ICT4D
Session Chair: Brygg Ullmer, Louisiana State University, USA

May 9, 11:30 AM
Room: 18AB

(Return to Top)

Claim Mobile: When to Fail a Technology (Page 1833)
Melissa Densmore, University of California, Berkeley, USA

mClerk: Enabling Mobile Crowdsourcing in Developing Regions (Page 1843)
Aakar Gupta, University of Toronto, Canada
William Thies, Microsoft Research India, India
Edward Cutrell, Microsoft Research India, India
Ravin Balakrishnan, University of Toronto, Canada

178: Movement-Based Gameplay
Session Chair: Shaun Kane, University of Maryland, Baltimore County, USA

May 9, 11:30 AM
Room: 18CD

(Return to Top)

Balancing Exertion Experiences (Page 1853)
Florian Mueller, RMIT University, The University of Melbourne, Stanford University
& Microsoft Research Asia, Australia
Frank Vetere, The University of Melbourne, Australia
Martin R. Gibbs, The University of Melbourne, Australia
Darren Edge, Microsoft Research Asia, China
Stefan Agamanolis, Akron Children's Hospital, USA
Jennifer G. Sheridan, BigDog Interactive Ltd., UK
Jeffrey Heer, Stanford University, USA

The Acute Cognitive Benefits of Casual Exergame Play (Page 1863)
Yue Gao, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Regan L. Mandryk, University of Saskatchewan, Canada

Full-Body Motion-Based Game Interaction for Older Adults (Page 1873)
Kathrin M. Gerling, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Ian J. Livingston, Ubisoft Divertissements Inc., Canada

4 of 12

4/23/2012 2:59 PM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 9th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Lennart E. Nacke, University of Ontario, Canada
Regan L. Mandryk, University of Saskatchewan, Canada

175: Beyond Paper
Session Chair: Mikael B. Skov, Aalborg University, The Netherlands

May 9, 11:30 AM
Room: 16AB

Successful Classroom Deployment of a Social Document Annotation
System (Page 1883)
Sacha Zyto, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
David R. Karger, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Mark S. Ackerman, University of Michigan, USA
Sanjoy Mahajan, Olin College of Engineering, USA

Informal Information Gathering Techniques for Active Reading (Page 1893)
Ken Hinckley, Microsoft Research, USA
Xiaojun Bi, Microsoft Research, USA
Michel Pahud, Microsoft Research, USA
Bill Buxton, Microsoft Research, USA

Toward a Theory of Interaction in Mobile Paper-Digital Ensembles (Page
1897)
Felix Heinrichs, Technische Universität Darmstadt, Germany
Daniel Schreiber, Technische Universität Darmstadt, Germany
Jochen Huber, Technische Universität Darmstadt, Germany
Max Mühlhäuser, Technische Universität Darmstadt, Germany

172: Sensory Interaction Modalities
Session Chair: Daniel M. Russell, Google, USA

May 9, 11:30 AM
Room: Ballroom
E

Humantenna: Using the Body as an Antenna for Real-Time Whole-Body
Interaction (Page 1901)
Gabe Cohn, Microsoft Research & University of Washington, USA
Daniel Morris, Microsoft Research, USA
Shwetak N. Patel, Microsoft Research & University of Washington, USA
Desney S. Tan, Microsoft Research, USA

SoundWave: Using the Doppler Effect to Sense Gestures (Page 1911)
Sidhant Gupta, Microsoft Research & University of Washington, USA
Daniel Morris, Microsoft Research, USA
Shwetak N. Patel, Microsoft Research & University of Washington, USA
Desney S. Tan, Microsoft Research, USA

Your Phone or Mine? Fusing Body, Touch and Device Sensing for
Multi-User Device-Display Interaction (Page 1915)
Mahsan Rofouei, Microsoft Research & University of California, Los Angeles, USA
Andrew D Wilson, Microsoft Research, USA
A.J. Bernheim Brush, Microsoft Research, USA
Stewart Tansley, Microsoft Research, USA

IllumiShare: Sharing Any Surface (Page 1919)
Sasa Junuzovic, Microsoft Research, USA
Kori Inkpen, Microsoft Research, USA
Tom Blank, Microsoft Research, USA
Anoop Gupta, Microsoft Research, USA

Rock-Paper-Fibers: Bringing Physical Affordance to Mobile Touch
Devices (Page 1929)
Frederik Rudeck, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Patrick Baudisch, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany

Shake'n'Sense: Reducing Interference for Overlapping Structured Light
Depth Cameras (Page 1933)
Alex Butler, Microsoft Research, UK
Shahram Izadi, Microsoft Research, UK
Otmar Hilliges, Microsoft Research, UK
David Molyneaux, Lancaster University & Microsoft Research, UK
Steve Hodges, Microsoft Research, UK
David Kim, Newcastle University & Microsoft Research Cambridge, UK

(Return to Top)

173: Old Mouse, New Tricks: Desktop Interfaces
Session Chair: Krzysztof Gajos, Harvard University, USA

May 9, 11:30 AM
Room: Ballroom
G

5 of 12

4/23/2012 2:59 PM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 9th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

Augmenting the Scope of Interactions with Implicit and Explicit
Graphical Structures (Page 1937)
Raphaël Hoarau, Université de Toulouse & ENAC-IRIT, France
Stéphane Conversy, Université de Toulouse & ENAC-IRIT, France

Taming Wild Behavior: The Input Observer for Obtaining Text Entry and
Mouse Pointing Measures from Everyday Computer Use (Page 1947)
Abigail C. Evans, University of Washington, USA
Jacob O. Wobbrock, University of Washington, USA

Dwell-and-Spring: Undo for Direct Manipulation (Page 1957)
Caroline Appert, Université Paris-Sud & CNRS, France
Olivier Chapuis, Université Paris-Sud & CNRS, France
Emmanuel Pietriga, INRIA, Université Paris-Sud & CNRS, France

174: Social Support & Collaboration
Session Chair: Meredith Ringel Morris, Microsoft Research, USA

May 9, 11:30 AM
Room: 19AB

Bridging Between Organizations and the Public: Volunteer Coordinators'
Uneasy Relationship with Social Computing (Page 1967)
Amy Voida, University of California, Irvine, USA
Ellie Harmon, University of California, Irvine, USA
Ban Al-Ani, University of California, Irvine, USA

The Labor Practices of Service Mediation: A Study of the Work
Practices of Food Assistance Outreach (Page 1977)
Lynn Dombrowski, University of California, Irvine, USA
Amy Voida, University of California, Irvine, USA
Gillian R. Hayes, University of California, Irvine, USA
Melissa Mazmanian, University of California, Irvine, USA

Socially Computed Scripts to Support Social Problem Solving Skills (Page
1987)
Fatima A. Boujarwah, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Gregory D. Abowd, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Rosa I. Arriaga, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA

Comparing Collaboration and Individual Personas for the Design and
Evaluation of Collaboration Software (Page 1997)
Tejinder K. Judge, Google Inc., USA
Tara Matthews, IBM Research - Almaden, USA
Steve Whittaker, University of California, Santa Cruz, USA

TEROOS: A Wearable Avatar to Enhance Joint Activities (Page 2001)
Tadakazu Kashiwabara, Keio University, Japan
Hirotaka Osawa, Keio University, Japan
Kazuhiko Shinozawa, ATR Intelligent Robotics and Communication Laboratories,
Japan
Michita Imai, Keio University, Japan

206: Culture, Playfulness, & Creativity
Session Chair: Lucian Leahu, Cornell University, USA

May 9, 2:30 PM
Room: 12AB

Uncomfortable Interactions (Page 2005)
Steve Benford, The University of Nottingham, UK
Chris Greenhalgh, The University of Nottingham, UK
Gabriella Giannachi, The University of Exeter, UK
Brendan Walker, The University of Nottingham, UK
Joe Marshall, The University of Nottingham, UK
Tom Rodden, The University of Nottingham, UK

Appreciating plei-plei Around Mobiles: Playfulness in Rah Island (Page 2015)
Pedro Ferreira, Stockholm University, Sweden
Kristina Höök, Stockholm University, Sweden

192: I Did That! Being in Control
Session Chair: Mary Beth Rosson, The Pennsylvania State Universtiy, USA

May 9, 2:30 PM
Room: 17AB

I Did That! Measuring Users' Experience of Agency in Their Own
Actions (Page 2025)
David Coyle, University of Cambridge, Trinity College Dublin & University of
Bristol, UK
James Moore, University of Cambridge & Universtiy of London, UK

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

6 of 12

4/23/2012 2:59 PM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 9th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

Per Ola Kristensson, University of St Andrews, UK
Paul C. Fletcher, University of Cambridge, UK
Alan F. Blackwell, University of Cambridge, UK

The Design Space of Opinion Measurement Interfaces: Exploring Recall
Support for Rating and Ranking (Page 2035)
Syavash Nobarany, University of British Columbia, Canada
Louise Oram, University of British Columbia, Canada
Vasanth Kumar Rajendran, University of British Columbia, Canada
Chi-Hsiang Chen, University of British Columbia, Canada
Joanna McGrenere, University of British Columbia, Canada
Tamara Munzner, University of British Columbia, Canada

Assessing the Vulnerability of Magnetic Gestural Authentication to
Video-Based Shoulder Surfing Attacks (Page 2045)
Alireza Sahami Shirazi, University of Stuttgart, Germany
Peyman Moghadam, CSIRO ICT Centre, Australia
Hamed Ketabdar, TU Berlin, Germany
Albrecht Schmidt, University of Stuttgart, Germany

185: Teaching with Games
Session Chair: Andreas Butz, University of Munich, Germany

May 9, 2:30 PM
Room: 18AB

Reducing Compensatory Motions in Video Games for Stroke
Rehabilitation (Page 2049)
Gazihan Alankus, Washington University in St. Louis & Izmir University of
Economics, USA
Caitlin Kelleher, Washington University in St. Louis, USA

Of BATs and APEs: An Interactive Tabletop Game for Natural History
Museums (Page 2059)
Michael S. Horn, Northwestern University, USA
Zeina Atrash Leong, Northwestern University, USA
Florian Block, Harvard University, USA
Judy Diamond, University of Nebraska, USA
E. Margaret Evans, University of Michigan, USA
Brenda Phillips, Harvard University, USA
Chia Shen, Harvard University, USA

Playable Character: Extending Digital Games into the Real World (Page
2069)
Jason Linder, California College of the Arts, USA
Wendy Ju, California College of the Arts, USA

Game Design for Promoting Counterfactual Thinking (Page 2079)
Elizabeth Bonsignore, University of Maryland, College Park, USA
Kari Kraus, University of Maryland, College Park, USA
Amanda Visconti, University of Maryland, USA
Derek Hansen, Brigham Young University, USA
Ann Fraistat, University of Maryland, College Park, USA
Allison Druin, University of Maryland, USA

Discovery-Based Games for Learning Software (Page 2083)
Tao Dong, University of Michigan, USA
Mira Dontcheva, Adobe Systems, USA
Diana Joseph, Adobe Systems, USA
Karrie Karahalios, University of Illinois, USA
Mark W. Newman, University of Michigan, USA
Mark S. Ackerman, University of Michigan, USA

(Return to Top)

170: Health + Design
Session Chair: Jodi Forlizzi, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

May 9, 2:30 PM
Room: 18CD

(Return to Top)

Activity-Based Interaction: Designing with Child Life Specialists in a
Children's Hospital (Page 2087)
Matthew Bonner, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Lan Wang, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Elizabeth D. Mynatt, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA

Adaptation as Design: Learning from an EMR Deployment Study (Page
2097)
Sun Young Park, University of California, Irvine, USA
Yunan Chen, University of California Irvine, USA

7 of 12

4/23/2012 2:59 PM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 9th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

161: Usability Methods
Session Chair: Effie Law, University of Leicester, UK

May 9, 2:30 PM
Room: 16AB

What Do Users Really Care About? A Comparison of Usability Problems
Found by Users and Experts on Highly Interactive Websites (Page 2107)
Helen Petrie, University of York, UK
Christopher Power, University of York, UK

The Effect of Task Assignments and Instruction Types on Remote
Asynchronous Usability Testing (Page 2117)
Anders Bruun, Aalborg University, Denmark
Jan Stage, Aalborg University, Denmark

Analysis in Practical Usability Evaluation: A Survey Study (Page 2127)
Asbjørn Følstad, SINTEF, Norway
Effie Lai-Chong Law, University of Leicester, UK
Kasper Hornbæk, University of Copenhagen, Denmark

Evaluating the Collaborative Critique Method (Page 2137)
Tamara Babaian, Bentley University, USA
Wendy Lucas, Bentley University, USA
Mari-Klara Oja, Bentley University, USA

187: Dimensions of Sensory Interaction
Session Chair: Shwetak Patel, University of Washington, USA

May 9, 2:30 PM
Room: Ballroom
E

ZeroTouch: an Optical Multi-Touch and Free-Air Interaction
Architecture (Page 2165)
Jon Moeller, Texas A&M University, USA
Andruid Kerne, Texas A&M University, USA

Enabling Concurrent Dual Views on Common LCDScreens (Page 2175)
Seokhwan Kim, Microsoft Research Asia & Redmond; University of Tsukuba, China
Xiang Cao, Microsoft Research Asia, China
Haimo Zhang, Microsoft Research Asia & National University of Singapore, China
Desney S. Tan, Microsoft Research, USA

Ultra-Tangibles: Creating Movable Tangible Objects on Interactive
Tables (Page 2185)
Mark T. Marshall, University of Bristol, UK
Thomas Carter, University of Bristol, UK
Jason Alexander, Lancaster University, UK
Sriram Subramanian, University of Bristol, UK

CapStones and ZebraWidgets: Sensing Stacks of Building Blocks, Dials
and Sliders on Capacitive Touch Screens (Page 2189)
Liwei Chan, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Stefanie Müller, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Anne Roudaut, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Patrick Baudisch, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany

Brainput: Enhancing Interactive Systems with Streaming fNIRS Brain
Input (Page 2193)
Erin Treacy Solovey, Massachusetts Institute of Technology & Tufts University, USA
Paul Schermerhorn, Indiana University, USA
Matthias Scheutz, Tufts University, USA
Angelo Sassaroli, Tufts University, USA
Sergio Fantini, Tufts University, USA
Robert J. K. Jacob, Tufts University, USA

181: Phone Fun: Extending Mobile Interaction
Session Chair: Ken Hinckley, Microsoft Research, UK

May 9, 2:30 PM
Room: Ballroom
G

iRotate: Automatic Screen Rotation Based on Face Orientation (Page 2203)
Lung-Pan Cheng, National Taiwan University, Taiwan
Fang-I Hsiao, National Taiwan University, Taiwan
Yen-Ting Liu, National Taiwan University, Taiwan
Mike Y. Chen, National Taiwan University, Taiwan

Looking At You: Fused Gyro and Face Tracking for Viewing Large
Imagery on Mobile Devices (Page 2211)
Neel Joshi, Microsoft Research, USA
Abhishek Kar, Microsoft Research & IIT Kanpur, India

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

8 of 12

4/23/2012 2:59 PM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 9th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

Michael Cohen, Microsoft Research, USA

User Learning and Performance with Bezel Menus (Page 2221)
Mohit Jain, University of Toronto, Canada
Ravin Balakrishnan, University of Toronto, Canada

Determining the Orientation of Proximate Mobile Devices Using Their
Back Facing Camera (Page 2231)
David Dearman, University of Toronto & Nokia Research Center, Canada
Richard T. Guy, University of Toronto, Canada
Khai N. Truong, University of Toronto, Canada

Phone as a Pixel: Enabling Ad-Hoc, Large-Scale Displays Using Mobile
Devices (Page 2235)
Julia Schwarz, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
David Klionsky, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Chris Harrison, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Paul Dietz, Microsoft Applied Sciences Group, USA
Andrew D. Wilson, Microsoft Research, USA

182: Check This Out: Recommender Systems
Session Chair: James Fogarty, University of Washington, USA

May 9, 2:30 PM
Room: 19AB

AccessRank: Predicting What Users Will Do Next (Page 2239)
Stephen Fitchett, University of Canterbury, New Zealand
Andy Cockburn, University of Canterbury, New Zealand

Effects of Behavior Monitoring and Perceived System Benefit in Online
Recommender Systems (Page 2243)
Michael Nowak, Stanford University, USA
Clifford Nass, Stanford University, USA

Asking the Right Person: Supporting Expertise Selection in the
Enterprise (Page 2247)
Svetlana Yarosh, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Tara Matthews, IBM Research - Almaden, USA
Michelle Zhou, IBM Research - Almaden, USA

To Switch or Not to Switch: Understanding Social Influence in Online
Choices (Page 2257)
Haiyi Zhu, Hewlett Packard Laboratories, USA
Bernardo A. Huberman, Hewlett Packard Laboratories, USA
Yarun Luon, Hewlett Packard Laboratories, USA

144: See Hear Speak: Redesigning I/O for Effectiveness
Session Chair: Eytan Adar, University of Michigan, USA

May 9, 4:30 PM
Room: 12AB

The SoundsRight CAPTCHA: An Improved Approach to Audio Human
Interaction Proofs for Blind Users (Page 2267)
Jonathan Lazar, Towson University, USA
Jinjuan Heidi Feng, Towson University, USA
Tim Brooks, Towson University, USA
Genna Melamed, Towson University, USA
Jon Holman, Towson University, USA
Abiodun Olalere, Towson University, USA
Nnanna Ekedebe, Towson University, USA
Brian Wentz, Towson University, USA

Voice Typing: A New Speech Interaction Model for Dictation on
Touchscreen Devices (Page 2277)
Anuj Kumar, Microsoft Research & Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Tim Paek, Microsoft Research, USA
Bongshin Lee, Microsoft Research, USA

Legible, Are You Sure? An Experimentation-Based Typographical Design
in Safety-Critical Context (Page 2287)
Jean-Luc Vinot, Université de Toulouse, France
Sylvie Athenes, Université de Toulouse, France

SSMRecolor: Improving Recoloring Tools with Situation-Specific Models
of Color Differentiation (Page 2297)
David R. Flatla, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Carl Gutwin, University of Saskatchewan, Canada

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

9 of 12

4/23/2012 2:59 PM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 9th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

184: Triple T: Touch, Tables, Tablets
Session Chair: Bjoern Hartmann, University of California, Berkeley, USA

May 9, 4:30 PM
Room: 17AB

Hand Occlusion on a Multi-Touch Tabletop (Page 2307)
Daniel Vogel, University of Waterloo, Canada
Géry Casiez, LIFL & INRIA Lille, University of Lille, Université Paris-Sud & CNRS,
France

BiTouch and BiPad: Designing Bimanual Interaction for Hand-Held
Tablets (Page 2317)
Julie Wagner, INRIA, France
Stéphane Huot, Université Paris-Sud, INRIA & CNSR, France
Wendy E. Mackay, INRIA, Université Paris-Sud & CNRS, France

See Me, See You: A Lightweight Method for Discriminating User
Touches on Tabletop Displays (Page 2327)
Hong Zhang, University of Manitoba, Canada
Xing-Dong Yang, University of Alberta, Canada
Barrett Ens, University of Manitoba, Canada
Hai-Ning Liang, University of Manitoba, Canada
Pierre Boulanger, University of Alberta, Canada
Pourang Irani, University of Manitoba, Canada

169: Defying Environmental Behavior Changes
Session Chair: Alan Borning, University of Washington, USA

May 9, 4:30 PM
Room: 18AB

We've Bin Watching You' - Designing for Reflection and Social
Persuasion to Promote Sustainable Lifestyles (Page 2337)
Anja Thieme, Newcastle University, UK
Rob Comber, Newcastle University, UK
Julia Miebach, University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany
Jack Weeden, Newcastle University & Philips Research, UK
Nicole Krämer, University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany
Shaun Lawson, University of Lincoln, UK
Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University, UK

Using Mobile Phones to Support Sustainability: A Field Study of
Residential Electricity Consumption (Page 2347)
Jesper Kjeldskov, Aalborg University, Denmark
Mikael B. Skov, Aalborg University, Denmark
Jeni Paay, Aalborg University, Denmark
Rahuvaran Pathmanathan, Aalborg University, Denmark

'Watts in It for Me?': Design Implications for Implementing Effective
Energy Interventions in Organisations (Page 2357)
Derek Foster, University of Lincoln, UK
Shaun Lawson, University of Lincoln, UK
Conor Linehan, University of Lincoln, UK
Jamie Wardman, University of Lincoln, UK
Mark Blythe, Northumbria University, UK

The Design and Evaluation of Prototype Eco-Feedback Displays for
Fixture-Level Water Usage Data (Page 2367)
Jon Froehlich, University of Washington & University of Maryland, College Park,
USA
Leah Findlater, University of Washington & University of Maryland, College Park,
USA
Marilyn Ostergren, University of Washington, USA
Solai Ramanathan, University of Washington, USA
Josh Peterson, University of Washington, USA
Inness Wragg, University of Washington, USA
Eric Larson, University of Washington, USA
Fabia Fu, University of Washington, USA
Mazhengmin Bai, University of Washington, USA
Shwetak N Patel, University of Washington, USA
James A. Landay, University of Washington, USA

(Return to Top)

194: Learning with Children
Session Chair: Carl DiSalvo, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA

May 9, 4:30 PM
Room: 18CD

10 of 12

4/23/2012 2:59 PM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 9th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

Interpreting Input from Children: A Designerly Approach (Page 2377)
Christopher Frauenberger, University of Sussex, UK
Judith Good, University of Sussex, UK
Wendy Keay-Bright, University of Cardiff Metropolitan, UK
Helen Pain, University of Edinburgh, UK

Video Kids: Augmenting Close Friendships with Asynchronous Video
Conversations in VideoPal (Page 2387)
Kori Inkpen, Microsoft Research, USA
Honglu Du, The Pennsylvania State University, USA
Asta Roseway, Microsoft Research, USA
Aaron Hoff, Microsoft Research, USA
Paul Johns, Microsoft Research, USA

Interchangeability of Computer and Paper Based Questionnaires in
Gathering Computer Experience Data from Young Children (Page 2397)
Akiyo Kano, University of Central Lancashire, UK
Janet C. Read, University of Central Lancashire, UK

180: Morphing & Tracking & Stacking: 3D Interaction
Session Chair: Celine Latulipe, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, USA

May 9, 4:30 PM
Room: Ballroom
E

kidCAD: Digitally Remixing Toys Through Tangible Tools (Page 2401)
Sean Follmer, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Hiroshi Ishii, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA

ClayVision: The (Elastic) Image of the City (Page 2411)
Yuichiro Takeuchi, Sony Computer Science Laboratories, Inc.,
Japan
Ken Perlin, New York University, USA

HoloDesk: Direct 3D Interactions with a Situated See-Through
Display (Page 2421)
Otmar Hilliges, Microsoft Research, UK
David Kim, Microsoft Research & Newcastle University, UK
Shahram Izadi, Microsoft Research, UK
Malte Weiss, Microsoft Research & RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Andrew D. Wilson, Microsoft Research, USA

DisplayStacks: Interaction Techniques for Stacks of Flexible Thin-Film
Displays (Page 2431)
Audrey Girouard, Queen's University & Carleton University, Canada
Aneesh P. Tarun, Queen's University, Canada
Roel Vertegaal, Queen's University, Canada

188: Social Computing: Business & Beyond
Session Chair: Henriette Cramer, Mobile Life @ SICS, The Netherlands

May 9, 4:30 PM
Room: Ballroom
F

Corporate Career Presences on Social Network Sites: An Analysis of
Hedonic and Utilitarian Value (Page 2441)
Franziska Brecht, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Germany
Andreas Eckhardt, Goethe -Universität Frankfurt am Main, Germany
Christian Berger, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Germany
Oliver Günther, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Germany

Finding and Assessing Social Media Information Sources in the Context
of Journalism (Page 2451)
Nicholas Diakopoulos, Rutgers University, USA
Munmun De Choudhury, Microsoft Research, USA
Mor Naaman, Rutgers University, USA

Understanding Experts' and Novices' Expertise Judgment of Twitter
Users (Page 2461)
Q. Vera Liao, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA
Claudia Wagner, DIGITAL- Institute for Information and Communication
Technologies, Austria
Peter Pirolli, Palo Alto Research Center, USA
Wai-Tat Fu, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

209: Programming, Performance, & Sense Making
Session Chair: John Thomas, IBM Research, USA

May 9, 4:30 PM
Room: Ballroom
G

11 of 12

4/23/2012 2:59 PM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 9th Paper Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

Modeling Task Performance for a Crowd of Users from Interaction
Histories (Page 2465)
Steven R. Gomez, Brown University, USA
David H. Laidlaw, Brown University, USA

Designing a Debugging Interaction Language: An Initial Case Study in
Natural Programming Plus (Page 2469)
Christopher Bogart, Oregon State University, USA
Margaret Burnett, Oregon State University, USA
Scott Douglass, Air Force Research Laboratory, USA
Rachel White, Oregon State University, USA
Hannah Adams, Oregon State University, USA

CogTool-Explorer: A Model of Goal-Directed User Exploration That
Considers Information Layout (Page 2479)
Leong-Hwee Teo, DSO National Laboratories, Singapore
Bonnie E. John, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Marilyn Hughes Blackmon, University of Colorado, USA

Easing the Generation of Predictive Human Performance Models from
Legacy Systems (Page 2489)
Amanda Swearngin, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA
Myra B. Cohen, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA
Bonnie E. John, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Rachel K. E. Bellamy, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA

191: Design Theory & Practice
Session Chair: Jeffrey Bardzell, Indiana University, USA

May 9, 4:30 PM
Room: 19AB

(Return to Top)

Understanding Agency in Interaction Design Materials (Page 2499)
Jakob Tholander, Mobile Life, Stockholm University, Sweden
Maria Normark, Mobile Life Centre & IT Södertörn University, Sweden
Chiara Rossitto, Stockholm University, Sweden

Talking about Implications for Design in Pattern Language (Page 2509)
Sebastian Denef, Fraunhofer FIT, Germany
David V. Keyson, TU Delft, The Netherlands

Your Opinion Counts! Leveraging Social Comments for Analyzing
Aesthetic Perception of Photographs (Page 2519)
Jose San Pedro, Telefonica Research & The Pennsylvania State University, USA
Poonam Suryanarayan, The Pennsylvania State University, USA

12 of 12

4/23/2012 2:59 PM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 10th Paper Presentation Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

CHI 2012 Proceedings Table of Contents
May 10th Paper & Note Sessions

CHI 2012 Papers & Notes Co-Chairs' Message

CHI 2012 Papers & Notes Associate Chairs

CHI 2012 Papers & Notes Additional Reviewers

Click here to see all the Papers & Note Sessions (Whole List)

Monday, May 7 AM Sessions

Monday, May 7 PM Sessions

Tuesday, May 8 AM Sessions

Tuesday, May 8 PM Sessions

Wednesday, May 9 AM Sessions

Wednesday, May 9 PM Sessions

Thursday, May 10 AM Sessions

Thursday, May 10 PM Sessions

This symbol identifies and links to the accompanying video.

This symbol identifies a best paper award winner.

Main Page

Conference Welcome

Society Welcome

About SIGCHI & ACM

CHI'12 Organization

CHI'12 Proceedings

(Papers & Notes)

Author Index

Sponsors & Supporters

This symbol identifies a best paper nominee.

207: Interactions Beyond the Desktop
Session Chair: Kent Lyons, Intel Labs Santa Clara, USA

May 10, 9:30 AM
Room: 17AB

(Return to Top)

Beyond Stereo: An Exploration of Unconventional Binocular
Presentation for Novel Visual Experience (Page 2523)
Haimo Zhang, Microsoft Research Asia & National University of Singapore, China
Xiang Cao, Microsoft Research Asia, China
Shengdong Zhao, National University of Singapore, Singapore

1 € Filter: A Simple Speed-Based Low-Pass Filter for Noisy Input in
Interactive Systems (Page 2527)
Géry Casiez, LIFL & INRIA Lille, University of Lille, France
Nicolas Roussel, INRIA Lille, France
Daniel Vogel, University of Waterloo, Canada

TeleHuman: Effects of 3D Perspective on Gaze and Pose Estimation with
a Life-Size Cylindrical Telepresence Pod (Page 2531)
Kibum Kim, Queen's University, Canada
John Bolton, Queen's University, Canada
Audrey Girouard, Queen's University & Carleton University, Canada
Jeremy Cooperstock, McGill University, Canada
Roel Vertegaal, Queen's University, Canada

MUSTARD: A Multi User See Through AR Display (Page 2541)
Abhijit Karnik, University of Bristol, UK
Walterio Mayol-Cuevas, University of Bristol, UK
Sriram Subramanian, University of Bristol, UK

SphereAvatar: A Situated Display to Represent a Remote
Collaborator (Page 2551)
Oyewole Oyekoya, University College London, UK
William Steptoe, University College London, UK
Anthony Steed, University College London, UK

(Return to Top)

210: Right Where I Am: UX in Complex Environments
Session Chair: Kari-Jouko Räihä, University of Tampere, Sweden

May 10, 9:30 AM
Room: 18AB

1 of 9

4/19/2012 2:25 PM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 10th Paper Presentation Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

Trajectory-Aware Mobile Search (Page 2561)
Shahriyar Amini, Microsoft Research & Carnegie Mellon University, USA
A. J. Bernheim Brush, Microsoft Research, USA
John Krumm, Microsoft Research, USA
Jaime Teevan, Microsoft Research, USA
Amy Karlson, Microsoft Research, USA

360° Panoramic Overviews for Location-Based Services (Page 2565)
Alessandro Mulloni, Graz University of Technology, Austria
Hartmut Seichter, Graz University of Technology, Austria
Andreas Dünser, HIT Lab NZ, New Zealand
Patrick Baudisch, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Dieter Schmalstieg, Graz University of Technology, Austria

On the Use of Virtual Environments for the Evaluation of
Location-Based Applications (Page 2569)
Arief Ernst Hühn, NHTV Breda University of Applied Sciences, The Netherlands
Vassilis-Javed Khan, NHTV Breda University of Applied Sciences, The Netherlands
Andrés Lucero, Nokia Research Center, Finland
Paul Ketelaar, Radboud University Nijmegen, The Netherlands

The Impact of Three Interfaces for 360-Degree Video on Spatial
Cognition (Page 2579)
Wutthigrai Boonsuk, Iowa State University, USA
Stephen B. Gilbert, Iowa State University, USA
Jonathan W. Kelly, Iowa State University, USA

213: Health & Children
Session Chair: Julie Kientz, University of Washington, USA

May 10, 9:30 AM
Room: 18CD

MOSOCO: A Mobile Assistive Tool to Support Children with Autism
Practicing Social Skills in Real-Life Situations (Page 2589)
Lizbeth Escobedo, Universidad Autonoma de Baja, California, Mexico
David H. Nguyen, Nokia Research Center, Palo Alto, USA
LouAnne Boyd, NOC SELPA, USA
Sen H. Hirano, University of California, Irvine, USA
Alejandro Rangel, Universidad Autonoma de Baja California, Mexico
Daniel García-Rosas, Universidad Autonoma de Baja California, Mexico
Monica Tentori, Universidad Autonoma de Baja California, Ensenada, Mexico
Gillian R. Hayes, University of California Irvine, USA

Developing IDEAS: Supporting Children with Autism Within a
Participatory Design Team (Page 2599)
Laura Benton, University of Bath, UK
Hilary Johnson, University of Bath, UK
Emma Ashwin, University of Bath, UK
Mark Brosnan, University of Bath, UK
Beate Grawemeyer, University of Bath, UK

Supporting Face-to-Face Communication Between Clinicians and
Children with Chronic Headaches Through a Zoomable Multi-Touch
App (Page 2609)
Juan Pablo Hourcade, University of Iowa, USA
Martha Driessnack, University of Iowa, USA
Kelsey E. Huebner, University of Iowa, USA

Design of an Exergaming Station for Children with Cerebral Palsy (Page
2619)
Hamilton A. Hernandez, Queen's University, Canada
T. C. Nicholas Graham, Queen's University, Canada
Darcy Fehlings, Holland Bloorview Kids Rehab Hospital & University of Toronto,
Canada
Lauren Switzer, Holland Bloorview Kids Rehab Hospital, Canada
Zi Ye, Queen's University, Canada
Quentin Bellay, Queen's University, Canada
Md Ameer Hamza, Queen's University, Canada
Cheryl Savery, Queen's University, Canada
Tadeusz Stach, Queen's University, Canada

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

138: Comfortable Aging
Session Chair: Volker Wulf, University of Siegen, ???

May 10, 9:30 AM
Room: 16AB

2 of 9

4/19/2012 2:25 PM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 10th Paper Presentation Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

Enabling Self, Intimacy and a Sense of Home in Dementia: An Enquiry
into Design in a Hospital Setting (Page 2629)
Jayne Wallace, Northumbria University, UK
Anja Thieme, Newcastle University, UK
Gavin Wood, Newcastle University, UK
Guy Schofield, Newcastle University, UK
Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University, UK

ICT-Development in Residential Care Settings: Sensitizing Design to the
Life Circumstances of the Residents of a Care Home (Page 2639)
Claudia Müller, University of Siegen, Germany
Cornelius Neufeldt, University of Siegen, Germany
David Randall, University of Siegen, Germany
Volker Wulf, University of Siegen, Germany

Investigating Interruptions in the Context of Computerised Cognitive
Testing for Older Adults (Page 2649)
Matthew Brehmer, University of British Columbia, Canada
Joanna McGrenere, University of British Columbia, Canada
Charlotte Tang, University of British Columbia, Canada
Claudia Jacova, University of British Columbia, Canada

195: Touch Text Entry
Session Chair: Brian Bailey, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA

May 10, 9:30 AM
Room: Ballroom
E

Observational and Experimental Investigation
of Typing Behaviour Using Virtual Keyboards
for Mobile Devices (Page 2659)
Niels Henze, University of Oldenburg, Germany
Enrico Rukzio, University of Duisburg-Essen & Lancaster University, Germany
Susanne Boll, University of Oldenburg, Germany

Multidimensional Pareto Optimization of Touchscreen Keyboards for
Speed, Familiarity and Improved Spell Checking (Page 2669)
Mark D. Dunlop, University of Strathclyde, UK
John Levine, University of Strathclyde, UK

Beyond QWERTY: Augmenting Touch- Screen Keyboards with
Multi-Touch Gestures for Non-Alphanumeric Input (Page 2679)
Leah Findlater, Universtiy of Maryland & University of Washington, USA
Ben Q. Lee, University of Washington, USA
Jacob O. Wobbrock, University of Washington, USA

Touch Typing Using Thumbs: Understanding the Effect of Mobility and
Hand Posture (Page 2683)
Hugo Nicolau, IST/Technical Universtiy of Lisbon/INESC-ID, Portugal
Joaquim Jorge, IST/Technical Universtiy of Lisbon/INESC-ID, Portugal

WalkType: Using Accelerometer Data to Accommodate Situational
Impairments in Mobile Touch Screen Text Entry (Page 2687)
Mayank Goel, University of Washington, USA
Leah Findlater, Universtiy of Maryland & University of Washington, USA
Jacob O. Wobbrock, University of Washington, USA

189: Programming & Debugging
Session Chair: Niklas Elmqvist, Purdue University, USA

May 10, 9:30 AM
Room: Ballroom
G

Codelets: Linking Interactive Documentation and Example Code in the
Editor (Page 2697)
Stephen Oney, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Joel Brandt, Adobe Systems, USA

Evaluating Interactive Support for Secure Programming (Page 2707)
Jing Xie, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, USA
Heather Richter Lipford, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, USA
Bill Chu, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, USA

Triggering Triggers and Burying Barriers to Customizing Software (Page
2717)
Nikola Banovic, Autodesk Research & University of Toronto, Canada
Fanny Chevalier, OCAD University, Canada
Tovi Grossman, Autodesk Research, Canada
George Fitzmaurice, Autodesk Research, Canada

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

3 of 9

4/19/2012 2:25 PM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 10th Paper Presentation Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

201: Organizing the Recovery
Session Chair: Ron Wakkary, Simon Fraser University, Canada

May 10, 9:30 AM
Room: 19AB

(Return to Top)

Brainstorming for Japan: Rapid Distributed Global Collaboration for
Disaster Response (Page 2727)
Michael Muller, IBM Research, USA
Sacha Chua, IBM Global Business Services, Canada

166: Tweet, Tweet, Tweet!
Session Chair: Sadat Shami, IBM Research, USA

May 10, 11:30
AM
Room: 12AB

(Return to Top)

Designing Social Translucence Over Social Networks (Page 2731)
Eric Gilbert, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA

A Longitudinal Study of Facebook, LinkedIn, & Twitter Use (Page 2741)
Anne Archambault, Microsoft Corporation, USA
Jonathan Grudin, Microsoft Research, USA

Breaking News on Twitter (Page 2751)
Mengdie Hu, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Shixia Liu, Microsoft Research Asia, China
Furu Wei, Microsoft Research Asia, China
Yingcai Wu, University of California, Davis, USA
John Stasko, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Kwan-Liu Ma, University of California, Davis, USA

The Twitter Mute Button: A Web Filtering Challenge (Page 2755)
Jennifer Golbeck, University of Maryland, College Park, USA

208: Me & My Mobile
Session Chair: Lynne Baillie, Glasgow Caledonian University, UK

May 10, 11:30
AM
Room: 17AB

'Timid Encounters': A Case Study in the Use of Proximity-Based Mobile
Technologies (Page 2759)
Christian Licoppe, Télécom ParisTech, France
Yoriko Inada, Télécom ParisTech, France

(Return to Top)

Characterizing Web Use on Smartphones (Page 2769)
Chad C. Tossell, Rice University, USA
Philip Kortum, Rice University, USA
Ahmad Rahmati, Rice University, USA
Clayton Shepard, Rice University, USA
Lin Zhong, Rice University, USA

Narratives of Satisfying and Unsatisfying Experiences of Current Mobile
Augmented Reality Applications (Page 2779)
Thomas Olsson, Tampere University of Technology, Finland
Markus Salo, University of Jyväskylä, Finland

Exploring User Motivations for Eyes-Free Interaction on Mobile
Devices (Page 2789)
Bo Yi, National University of Singapore, Singapore
Xiang Cao, Microsoft Research Asia, China
Morten Fjeld, Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden
Shengdong Zhao, National University of Singapore, Singapore

211: Understanding Gamers
Session Chair: Peter Tolmie, University of Nottingham, UK

May 10, 11:30
AM
Room: 18AB

Protecting Artificial Team-Mates: More Seems Like Less (Page 2793)
Tim Merritt, National University of Singapore, Singapore
Kevin McGee, National University of Singapore & National University of
Singapore, Singapore

Online Gaming Motivations Scale: Development and Validation (Page 2803)
Nick Yee, Palo Alto Research Center, USA
Nicolas Ducheneaut, Palo Alto Research Center, USA
Les Nelson, Palo Alto Research Center, USA

Experimental Investigation of Human Adaptation to Change in Agent's
Strategy Through a Competitive Two-Player Game (Page 2807)
Kazunori Terada, Gifu University, Japan
Seiji Yamada, National Institute of Informatics/SOKENDAI, Japan

(Return to Top)

4 of 9

4/19/2012 2:25 PM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 10th Paper Presentation Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

Akira Ito, Gifu University, Japan

Through the Azerothian Looking Glass: Mapping In-Game Preferences
to Real World Demographics (Page 2811)
Nick Yee, Palo Alto Research Center, USA
Nicolas Ducheneaut, Palo Alto Research Center, USA
Han-Tai Shiao, University of Minnesota, USA
Les Nelson, Palo Alto Research Center, USA

205: Better Together
Session Chair: Gary Hsieh, Michigan State University, USA

May 10, 11:30
AM
Room: 16AB

Diversity Among Enterprise Online Communities: Collaborating,
Teaming, and Innovating Through Social Media (Page 2815)
Michael Muller, IBM Research, USA
Kate Ehrlich, IBM Research, USA
Tara Matthews, IBM Research, USA
Adam Perer, IBM Research, USA
Inbal Ronen, Haifa University, Israel
Ido Guy, Haifa University, Israel

Homeless Young People on Social Network Sites (Page 2825)
Jill Palzkill Woelfer, University of Washington, USA
David G. Hendry, University of Washington, USA

Supporting the Social Context of Technology Appropriation: On a
Synthesis of Sharing Tools and Tool Knowledge (Page 2835)
Sebastian Draxler, University of Siegen, Germany
Gunnar Stevens, University of Siegen, Germany
Martin Stein, University of Siegen, Germany
Alexander Boden, University of Siegen, Germany
David Randall, Manchester Metropolitan University, UK

196: Bigger is Better: Large & Multiple Display Environments
Session Chair: David Dearman, Nokia Research Center, USA

May 10, 11:30
AM
Room: Ballroom
E

ReticularSpaces: Activity-Based Computing Support for Physically
Distributed and Collaborative Smart Spaces (Page 2845)
Jakob E. Bardram, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Sofiane Gueddana, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Steven Houben, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Søren Nielsen, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark

Regional Undo/Redo Techniques for Large Interactive Surfaces (Page 2855)
Thomas Seifried, University of Applied Sciences Upper Austria, Austria
Christian Rendl, University of Applied Sciences Upper Austria, Austria
Michael Haller, University of Applied Sciences Upper Austria, Austria
Stacey D. Scott, University of Waterloo, Canada

Tangible Remote Controllers for Wall-Size Displays (Page 2865)
Yvonne Jansen, Université Paris-Sud/INRIA, France
Pierre Dragicevic, INRIA, France
Jean-Daniel Fekete, INRIA, France

199: What a Lovely Gesture
Session Chair: Hrvoje Benko, Microsoft Research, USA

May 10, 11:30
AM
Room: Ballroom
G

Gesture Coder: A Tool for Programming Multi-Touch Gestures by
Demonstration (Page 2875)
Hao Lü, University of Washington, USA
Yang Li, Google Research, USA

Proton: Multitouch Gestures as Regular Expressions (Page 2885)
Kenrick Kin, University of California, Berkeley & Pixar Animation Studios, USA
Björn Hartmann, University of California, Berkeley, USA
Tony DeRose, Pixar Animation Studios, USA
Maneesh Agrawala, University of California, Berkeley, USA

Bootstrapping Personal Gesture Shortcuts with the Wisdom of the
Crowd and Handwriting Recognition (Page 2895)
Tom Y. Ouyang, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Yang Li, Google Research, USA

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

5 of 9

4/19/2012 2:25 PM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 10th Paper Presentation Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

202: Crowdsourcing & Peer Production II
Session Chair: Erika Poole, Penn State, USA

May 10, 11:30
AM
Room: 19AB

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Habit as an Explanation of Participation in an Online Peer-Production
Community (Page 2905)
Donghee Yvette Wohn, Michigan State University, USA
Alcides Velasquez, Michigan State University, USA
Tor Bjornrud, Michigan State University, USA
Cliff Lampe, University of Michigan, USA

Evaluating Compliance-Without-Pressure Techniques for Increasing
Participation in Online Communities (Page 2915)
Mikhil Masli, University of Minnesota, USA
Loren Terveen, University of Minnesota, USA

Social Desirability Bias and Self-Reports of Motivation: A Study of
Amazon Mechanical Turk in the US and India (Page 2925)
Judd Antin, Yahoo! Research, USA
Aaron Shaw, University of California, Berkeley, USA

Deploying MonoTrans Widgets in the Wild (Page 2935)
Chang Hu, University of Maryland, USA
Philip Resnik, University of Maryland, USA
Yakov Kronrod, University of Maryland, USA
Benjamin B. Bederson, University of Maryland, USA

A Quantitative Explanation of Governance in an Online Peer-Production
Community (Page 2939)
Chandan (Dan) Sarkar, Michigan State University, USA
Donghee Yvette Wohn, Michigan State University, USA
Cliff Lampe, University of Michigan, USA
Kurt DeMaagd, Michigan State University, USA

216: Usability & User Research
Session Chair: Anna Cox, University College London, UK

May 10, 2:30 PM
Room: 12AB

Identifying Usability Issues via Algorithmic Detection of Excessive Visual
Search (Page 2943)
Corey Holland, Texas State University, USA
Oleg Komogortsev, Texas State University, USA
Dan Tamir, Texas State University, USA

An Evaluation of How Small User Interface Changes Can Improve
Scientists' Analytic Strategies (Page 2953)
Radu Jianu, Brown University, USA
David H. Laidlaw, Brown University, USA

Mouse Tracking: Measuring and Predicting Users' Experience of
Web-Based Content (Page 2963)
Vidhya Navalpakkam, Yahoo! Research, USA
Elizabeth F. Churchill, Yahoo! Research, USA

Evaluating the Benefits of Real-Time Feedback in Mobile Augmented
Reality with Hand-Held Devices (Page 2973)
Can Liu, RWTH Aachen University, Univ Paris-Sud & CNRS & INRIA, Germany
Stéphane Huot, Univ Paris-Sud & CNRS & INRIA, France
Jonathan Diehl, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Wendy E. Mackay, INRIA & Univ Paris-Sud & CNRS, France
Michel Beaudouin-Lafon, Univ Paris-Sud & CNRS & INRIA, France

How Do We Find Personal Files? The Effect of OS, Presentation & Depth
on File Navigation (Page 2977)
Ofer Bergman, Bar-Ilan University, Israel
Steve Whittaker, University of California, Santa Cruz, USA
Mark Sanderson, RMIT University, Australia
Rafi Nachmias, Tel Aviv University, Israel
Anand Ramamoorthy, Universiteit Ghent, Belgium

(Return to Top)

198: Do You See What Eye See
Session Chair: Andrew Duchowski, Clemson University, UK

May 10, 2:30 PM
Room: 17AB

6 of 9

4/19/2012 2:25 PM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 10th Paper Presentation Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

Look & Touch: Gaze-Supported Target
Acquisition (Page 2981)
Sophie Stellmach, University of Magdeburg, Germany
Raimund Dachselt, University of Magdeburg, Germany

Gaze-Augmented Think-Aloud as an Aid to Learning (Page 2991)
Sarah A. Vitak, Scripps College, USA
John E. Ingram, University of the South, USA
Andrew T. Duchowski, Clemson University, USA
Steven Ellis, Clemson University, USA
Anand K. Gramopadhye, Clemson University, USA

An Exploratory Study of Eye Typing Fundamentals: Dwell Time, Text
Entry Rate, Errors, and Workload (Page 3001)
Kari-Jouko Räihä, University of Tampere, Finland
Saila Ovaska, University of Tampere, Finland

Increasing the Security of Gaze-Based Cued-Recall Graphical
Passwords Using Saliency Masks (Page 3011)
Andreas Bulling, University of Cambridge & Lancaster University, UK
Florian Alt, University of Stuttgart, Germany
Albrecht Schmidt, University of Stuttgart, Germany

212: Home & Family
Session Chair: Andrea Grimes Parker, Georgia Institute of Technology, UK

May 10, 2:30 PM
Room: 18AB

"You're Capped!" Understanding the Effects of Bandwidth Caps on
Broadband Use in the Home (Page 3021)
Marshini Chetty, Microsoft Research & Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Richard Banks, Microsoft Research, UK
A.J. Bernheim Brush, Microsoft Research, USA
Jonathan Donner, Microsoft Research, India
Rebecca E. Grinter, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA

Age Differences in Exploratory Learning from a Health Information
Website (Page 3031)
Jessie Chin, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA
Wai-Tat Fu, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA

Income, Race, and Class: Exploring Socioeconomic Differences in
Family Technology Use (Page 3041)
Sarita Yardi, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Amy Bruckman, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA

215: Designing for Learners' Complex Needs
Session Chair: Hilary Hutchinson, Google, USA

May 10, 2:30 PM
Room: 18CD

The eLabBench in the Wild - Supporting Exploration in a Molecular
Biology Lab (Page 3051)
Aurélien Tabard, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Juan David Hincapié Ramos, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Jakob E. Bardram, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark

How Students Find, Evaluate and Utilize Peer-Collected Annotated
Multimedia Data in Science Inquiry with Zydeco (Page 3061)
Alex Kuhn, University of Michigan, USA
Brenna McNally, University of Michigan, USA
Shannon Schmoll, University of Michigan, USA
Clara Cahill, University of Michigan, USA
Wan-Tzu Lo, University of Michigan, USA
Chris Quintana, University of Michigan, USA
Ibrahim Delen, University of Michigan, USA

Phylo-Genie: Engaging Students in Collaborative 'Tree-Thinking'
Through Tabletop Techniques (Page 3071)
Bertrand Schneider, Stanford University, USA
Megan Strait, Tufts University, USA
Laurence Muller, Harvard University, USA
Sarah Elfenbein, Yale University, USA
Orit Shaer, Wellesley College, USA
Chia Shen, Harvard University, USA

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

7 of 9

4/19/2012 2:25 PM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 10th Paper Presentation Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

190: Groups @ Work
Session Chair: Eric Gilbert, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA

May 10, 2:30 PM
Room: 16AB

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

The Impact of Communication Structure on New Product Development
Outcomes (Page 3081)
Marcelo Cataldo, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Kate Ehrlich, IBM Research, USA

One of the Gang: Supporting In-Group Behavior for Embodied Mediated
Communication (Page 3091)
Irene Rae, University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA
Leila Takayama, Willow Garage Inc., USA
Bilge Mutlu, University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA

Cross-Cutting Faultlines of Location and Shared Identity in the
Intergroup Cooperation of Partially Distributed Groups (Page 3101)
Amy Voida, University of California, Irvine, USA
Nathan D. Bos, Johns Hopkins University, USA
Judith S. Olson, University of California, Irvine, USA
Gary M. Olson, University of California, Irvine, USA
Lauren Dunning, University of California, Irvine, USA

Time Travel Proxy: Using Lightweight Video Recordings to Create
Asynchronous, Interactive Meetings (Page 3111)
John C. Tang, Microsoft Research, USA
Jennifer Marlow, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Aaron Hoff, Microsoft Research, USA
Asta Roseway, Microsoft Research, USA
Kori Inkpen, Microsoft Research, USA
Chen Zhao, Microsoft Research, USA
Xiang Cao, Microsoft Research, USA

One of the Gang: Supporting In-Group Behavior for Embodied Mediated
Communication (Page 3091)
Irene Rae, University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA
Leila Takayama, Willow Garage, USA
Bilge Mutlu, University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA

197: Use the Force
Session Chair: Mike Horn, Northwestern University, USA

May 10, 2:30 PM
Room: Ballroom
E

Evaluation of Human Tangential Force Input Performance (Page 3121)
Bhoram Lee, Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology, Korea
Hyunjeong Lee, Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology, Korea
Soo-Chul Lim, Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology, Korea
Hyungkew Lee, Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology, Korea
Seungju Han, Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology, Korea
Joonah Park, Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology, Korea

PocketNavigator: Studying Tactile Navigation Systems In-Situ (Page 3131)
Martin Pielot, OFFIS Institute for Information Technology, Germany
Benjamin Poppinga, OFFIS Institute for Information Technology, Germany
Wilko Heuten, OFFIS Institute for Information Technology, Germany
Susanne Boll, University of Oldenburg, Germany

Funneling and Saltation Effects for Tactile Interaction with Virtual
Objects (Page 3141)
Jaedong Lee, Korea University, Korea
Youngsun Kim, Korea University, Korea
Gerard J. Kim, Korea University, Korea

Using Shear as a Supplemental Two-Dimensional Input Channel for Rich
Touchscreen Interaction (Page 3149)
Chris Harrison, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Scott E. Hudson, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

GyroTab: A Handheld Device That Provides Reactive Torque
Feedback (Page 3153)
Akash Badshah, Microsoft Research & Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Sidhant Gupta, Microsoft Research & University of Washington, USA
Daniel Morris, Microsoft Research, USA
Shwetak N. Patel, Microsoft Research & University of Washington, USA

8 of 9

4/19/2012 2:25 PM

CHI 2012 Proceedings -- May 10th Paper Presentation Sessions

file:///H:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2012/CHI_2012_DVD/forms/p...

Desney S. Tan, Microsoft Research, USA

200: Human Performance Gives Us Fitts'
Session Chair: Olivier Chapuis, Univ Paris-Sud, France

May 10, 2:30 PM
Room: Ballroom
G

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Accurate Measurements of Pointing Performance from In Situ
Observations (Page 3157)
Krzysztof Z. Gajos, Harvard University, USA
Katharina Reinecke, Harvard University, USA
Charles Herrmann, Harvard University, USA

A General-Purpose Target-Aware Pointing Enhancement Using
Pixel-Level Analysis of Graphical Interfaces (Page 3167)
Morgan Dixon, University of Washington, USA
James Fogarty, University of Washington, USA
Jacob O. Wobbrock, University of Washington, USA

Assisting Hand Skill Transfer of Tracheal Intubation Using Outer-
Covering Haptic Display (Page 3177)
Vibol Yem, University of Tsukuba, Japan
Hideaki Kuzuoka, University of Tsukuba, Japan
Naomi Yamashita, NTT Communication Science Laboratories, Japan
Hiroaki Yano, University of Tsukuba, Japan
Ryota Shibusawa, University of Tsukuba, Japan
Jun Yamashita, University of Tsukuba, Japan

An Investigation of Fitts' Law in a Multiple-Display Environment (Page 3181)
Dugald Ralph Hutchings, Elon University, USA

Extending Fitts' Law to Account for the Effects of Movement Direction
on 2D Pointing (Page 3185)
Xinyong Zhang, Renmin University of China, China
Hongbin Zha, Peking University, China
Wenxin Feng, Renmin University of China, China

203: With a Little Help from My Friends
Session Chair: Amy Hurst, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

May 10, 2:30 PM
Room: 19AB

Perceptions of Facebook's Value as an Information Source (Page 3195)
Cliff Lampe, University of Michigan, USA
Jessica Vitak, Michigan State University, USA
Rebecca Gray, Michigan State University, USA
Nicole B. Ellison, Michigan State University, USA

WebCrystal: Understanding and Reusing Examples in Web
Authoring (Page 3205)
Kerry Shih-Ping Chang, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Brad A. Myers, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Understanding Mobile Q&A Usage: An Exploratory Study (Page 3215)
Uichin Lee, Korea Advanced Institute of Science & Technology, Korea
Hyanghong Kang, Korea Advanced Institute of Science & Technology, Korea
Eunhee Yi, Korea Advanced Institute of Science & Technology, Korea
Mun Y. Yi, Korea Advanced Institute of Science & Technology, Korea
Jussi Kantola, Korea Advanced Institute of Science & Technology, Korea

9 of 9

4/19/2012 2:25 PM

Welcome
Conference Committee

n CHI 2012 ORGANIZING COMMITTEE

n CHI 2012 COMMUNITIES

n MAKING THINGS HAPPEN

Conference Chair
Joseph A. Konstan, University of Minnesota

Chairs
Arnie Lund, Microsoft
Bo Begole, Samsung's User Experience

Design Directors
Apala Lahiri Chavan, Human Factors

International

Srikanth Vellore, Human Factors International

Webmaster
William Hudson, Syntagm Ltd. and Hult

International Business School

Posters
Oleg Komogortsev, Texas State University-

San Marcos

Proceedings
Max Van Kleek, University of Southampton
Nirmal Patel, Georgia Tech
Alireza Sahami Shirazi, University of Stuttgart
Michael Ekstrand, University of Minnesota

Mobile Apps
Stephen Oney, Carnegie Mellon University
Jason Wiese, Carnegie Mellon University
Eiji Hayashi, Carnegie Mellon University

Communications Director
Garett Dworman, Tec-Ed Inc

Program Production
Joan Johnson, Joan Johnson Design
Max Van Kleek, University of Southampton

Mailing Lists
Adam Sporka, Czech Technical University

ACM Staff Liaison
Ashley Cozzi, ACM

Sponsors and Exhibits
Carol Klyver, Foundations of Excellence

Conference Logistics
Janeé Pelletier, CLC
Allison Perrelli, CLC

Technology Liaison
Scooter Morris, University of California,

San Francisco

Sara Drenner, BI Worldwide

CMC Liaison
Scooter Morris, University of California,

San Francisco

Registration
Yvonne Lopez, Executive Events

n TECHNICAL PROGRAM

Chairs
Ed H. Chi, Google Research
Kristina Höök, Mobile Life @ KTH

Papers
Susanne Bødker, Aarhus University
Dan R. Olsen Jr., Brigham Young University

alt.chi
Amanda Williams, Wyld Collective Ltd.
Erica Robles, New York University

Case Studies
Daniela Busse, Samsung Research
Elizabeth Buie, Luminanze Consulting LLC

Courses
Nancy Frishberg, MSB Associates
Gregorio Convertino, Palo Alto Research

Center (PARC)

Doctoral Consortium
Steve Brewster, University of Glasgow
Erik Stolterman, Indiana University

Bloomington

Interactivity
Patrick Baudisch, Hasso Plattner Institut
Florian 'Floyd' Mueller, Exertion Games Lab
Eva Hornecker, University of Strathclyde
Danielle Wilde, daniellewilde.com

Panels
Allison Druin, University of Maryland
Joseph 'Joﬁsh' Kaye, Nokia Research

Center

Special Interest Groups (SIGS)
Daphne Raban, University of Haifa
Kaisa Väänänen-Vainio-Mattila, Tampere

University of Technology

Student Design Competition
Gilbert Cockton, Northumbria University
Thecla Schiphorst, Simon Fraser University

Student Research Competition
Anne Aula, Google
Shaowen Bardzell, Indiana University

Bloomington

Student Game Competition
Seth Cooper, University of Washington
Winslow Burleson, Arizona State University

Video
Michael Bernstein, MIT CSAIL
Jeffrey Bardzell, Indiana University,

Bloomington

Work-in-Progress (WIPs)
Lichan Hong, Google
Henriette Cramer, Mobile Life @ SICS

Workshops
Helena Mentis, Microsoft Research

Cambridge

Ido Guy, IBM Research Haifa

Center

Core Communities

    Design
    Ellen Yi-Luen Do, Georgia Tech
    Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University

    User Experience
    Jhilmil Jain, Microsoft
    Kath Straub, Usability.org

    Engineering
    Ruven Brooks, Independent Consultant
    Fabio Paternò, CNR-ISTI

    Management
    Janice Rohn, Experian
    Dennis Wixon, Microsoft

Featured Communities

    Child Computer Interaction
    Janet C Read, University of Central

Lancashire

    Panos Markopoulos, Eindhoven
University of Technology

    Allison Druin, University of Maryland

    Digital Arts

  David England, Liverpool John Moores

University

  Jill Fantauzzacofﬁn, Georgia Tech

  Games and Entertainment
  Regina Bernhaupt, IRIT
  Katherine Isbister, NYU-Poly

  Health
  Karen Cheng, University of California,
Irvine
  Julie Kientz, University of Washington

  Sustainability
  Eli Blevis, Indiana University at
Bloomington
  Samuel Mann, Otago Polytechnic

n PARTICIPATION AND VOLUNTEERING

Student Volunteer Coordinators
Vicky McArthur, York University
Bobby Beaton, Virginia Tech

Madness
Paul André, University of Southampton
Petra Sundström, Salzburg University

Social Media
Cliff Lampe, Michigan State University
Sean McNee, FTI Consulting

Publicity

Rosemary Stevens, Ace Public Relations
Eelco Herder, L3S Research Center

Local Experience
Annette Priest, Revel Insight

Adobe Systems, Inc.        Disney Research        University of Michigan School of Information

