CHI2013
CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS

CHANGING PERSPECTIVES

The 31st Annual CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems
27 APRIL - 2 MAY 2013  (cid:127)  PARIS  (cid:127)  FRANCE

EDITORS:
Susanne Bødker, Papers Co-Chair
Steven Brewster, Papers Co-Chair
Patrick Baudisch, Technical Program Co-Chair
Michel Beaudouin-Lafon, Technical Program Co-Chair
Wendy E. Mackay, General Conference Chair

The Association for Computing Machinery
2 Penn Plaza, Suite 701
New York, New York 10121-0701

Copyright © 2013 by the Association for Computing Machinery, Inc. (ACM). Permission to make digital or
hard copies of portions of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies
are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full
citation on the first page.  Copyright for components of this work owned by others than ACM must be
honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted.  To copy otherwise, to republish, to post on servers or to
redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee.  Request permission to republish from:
permissions@acm.org or Fax +1 (212) 869-0481.

For other copying of articles that carry a code at the bottom of the first or last page, copying is permitted
provided that the per-copy fee indicated in the code is paid through www.copyright.com.

Notice to Past Authors of ACM-Published Articles
ACM intends to create a complete electronic archive of all articles and/or other material previously published
by ACM. If you have written a work that has been previously published by ACM in any journal or
conference proceedings prior to 1978, or any SIG Newsletter at any time, and you do NOT want this work to
appear in the ACM Digital Library, please inform permissions@acm.org, stating the title of the work, the
author(s), and where and when published.

ISBN:  978-1-4503-1899-0

Additional copies may be ordered prepaid from:

ACM Order Department
PO Box 30777
New York, NY  10087-0777, USA

Phone: 1-800-342-6626 (USA and Canada)
+1-212-626-0500 (Global)
Fax: +1-212-944-1318
E-mail: acmhelp@acm.org
Hours of Operation: 8:30 am – 4:30 pm ET

Printed in the USA

ii

CHI 2013 Compilation (Proceedings and Extended Abstracts)

file:///E:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2013/CHI_2013/forms/welcom...

Main Page

Organizers, Chairs' Messages,
& Reviewers

Program

Proceedings: Paper Sessions

Extended Abstracts

Best of CHI

Compilation Author Index

Sponsors & Supporters

(Return to Top)

Bienvenue and Welcome to CHI 2013 in Paris, France!

CHI 2013 is located in the Palais des Congrès in central Paris, a few blocks from the Arc de Triomphe. Often
described as the most beautiful city in the world, Paris is home to world-class museums, excellent food and breath-
taking architecture, just steps away or a short ride on the metro.

CHI is the premier international conference on human-computer interaction, offering a central forum for sharing
innovative interactive technologies that shape people's lives. CHI gathers a multidisciplinary community from
around the world: our great strength is our ability to bring together students and experts, researchers and
practitioners, scientists, designers and engineers, drawing from their diverse perspectives to create new visions of
human-computer interaction.

This year's theme, changing perspectives, is symbolized by the Louvre's elegant pyramid. Its transparency reveals
the technical, modern structure within, as it reflects the classic architecture surrounding it, changing color and
texture in the shifting Paris light. Our eminent keynote speakers offer similarly contrasting perspectives, from
design, engineering and the social sciences. We open with Paola Antonelli, Senior Curator and Architecture &
Design Director for Research & Development at MOMA in New York and we close with Bruno Latour, author of
Science in Action and head of Paris's Médialab at Sciences Po.

Vint Cerf, President of ACM and fondly referred to as the 'father of the internet', will give a joint keynote on May 2
with ACM's First European Computing Research Congress (ECRC), organized in collaboration with CHI 2013. On
that day, participants may attend each other's sessions and discover new perspectives on computing and interaction.

CHI 2013 includes two days of focused workshops and four days of technical content, including CHI's prestigious
technical program, with 16 parallel sessions of rigorously reviewed research Papers, engaging Panels, Case
Studies and SIGs, an extensive Course program and invited talks from SIGCHI's award winners: George
Robertson, Jacob Nielsen, and Sara Czaja. This year, RepliCHI joins the Honorable Mention and Best Paper
awards, to recognize excellence in the research process. We also host student research, design, and game
competitions, provocative alt.chi presentations and last-minute Birds-of-a-Feather sessions for discussing current
topics.

Interactivity showcases the best of interactive technology, both advances in research and artistic explorations, and
we highlight over 300 Works-In-Progress posters. Evening events include the CHI 2013 reception, Sponsors and
University events, local performances, the job fair and the Video Showcase.

We received a record number of submissions (over 3500) and accepted over 1000 that will appear in the ACM
Digital Library. To help you navigate through this immense program, we introduce Video Previews, 30" clips that
describe each event in the main program. Before the conference, browse through them on the CHI 2013 website. At
the conference, get an overview of the upcoming session on the large Interactive Schedule displays and add your
favorites to your Mobile App. Or, browse the videos, papers and extended abstracts on the CHI 2013 flash drive.

1 of 2

4/18/2013 3:41 PM

CHI 2013 Compilation (Proceedings and Extended Abstracts)

file:///E:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2013/CHI_2013/forms/welcom...

After the conference, create a video montage to share with colleagues at home or link to them from ACM's YouTube
channel or the Digital Library.

We are deeply indebted to the vast number of volunteers, without whom CHI 2013 would not be possible, including
over 2000 reviewers, over 200 senior members of the program committee, over 50 venue chairs on the CHI 2013
conference committee and, of course, the student volunteers. We thank you all!

We are excited by the opportunity to host CHI 2013 and wish you a productive and enjoyable stay in Paris!

(Return to Top)

Wendy E. Mackay
INRIA
CHI 2013 General Conference Chair

Patrick Baudisch
Hasso Plattner Institute
CHI 2013 Technical Program Co-Chair

Michel Beaudouin-Lafon
Université Paris-Sud
CHI 2013 Technical Program Co-Chair

2 of 2

4/18/2013 3:41 PM

CHI 2013 Compilation (Proceedings and Extended Abstracts)

file:///E:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2013/CHI_2013/forms/welcom...

Main Page

Organizers, Chairs' Messages,
& Reviewers

Program

Proceedings: Paper Sessions

Extended Abstracts

Best of CHI

Compilation Author Index

Sponsors & Supporters

From ACM SIGCHI's President and Vice President for Conferences

SIGCHI is proud to sponsor the premier annual conference in the field of human-computer interaction. We are
extremely grateful to the CHI 2013 Conference Chair Wendy Mackay, to Technical Program Chairs Patrick
Baudisch and Michel Beaudouin-Lafon, and to their wonderful crew, who succeeded to build an impressive
program and experience.

CHI 2013 turns back to Europe, and, for the first time, resides in Paris with its vibrant French HCI community, 31
years after the first conference, on Human Factors in Computer Systems, in Gaithersburg, MD, on March 15-17,
1982. The second and third conferences were a year and a half apart, and from then on CHI, as the conference has
been called since 1983, has been an annual event with the official name: "ACM Conference on Human Factors in
Computing Systems".

That first conference drew over 900 attendees, and since then CHI has continued to grow and broaden its range of
topics and contributing disciplines: the founding psychologists and software engineers began to meet new visions
from ethnography, sociology, communication sciences and arts, among others. Relevant industries, as well as
research institutes and academia, showed an increasing - and often long-lasting - interest and involvement (through
volunteers and through sponsorship for conference expenses).

CHI is an ideal forum for people to meet formally as well as informally, to exchange knowledge and views, to
share experiences, and to learn. The CHI conference brings together professionals from research and practice;
people from industry, academia, and from government; long-term veterans of HCI, young professionals and
students; all in an environment designed to encourage interaction. We invite you to actively participate in that
interaction: introduce yourself to people, interact with presenters and speakers, renew old friendships and make
new ones.

CHI is organized on behalf of ACM's Special Interest Group on Computer-Human Interaction (SIGCHI), an
international community of professionals who share an interest in the many diverse facets of HCI. SIGCHI is
committed both to advancing the field of HCI, to facilitate exchange of information within the SIGCHI community,
and to support students to enter the domain.

(Return to Top)

The CHI conference is arguably the single most visible activity of SIGCHI, but we also sponsor and support a wide
range of specialized conferences and workshops in areas ranging from interactive systems design to user interface
technology to computer-supported cooperative work to "intelligent" user interfaces. Visit the SIGCHI website at
http://www.sigchi.org to find our conference schedule, listing upcoming as well as past conferences.

SIGCHI and ACM produce some of the most respected publications in the field. All members receive interactions,
a highly-acclaimed magazine covering the broad field of HCI and user interface design. ACM Transactions on
Computer-Human Interactions (ToCHI), now in its 20st year, is our flagship journal - a quarterly publication with
the top-quality archival research aimed at researchers and those translating research into practice.

SIGCHI is truly an international organization, with over 30 local chapters and 3 student chapters in 23 countries on
5 continents. We encourage all SIGCHI members to join their local chapter - or if there isn't one in your area, we
would love to help you create one. And don't forget virtual communities! SIGCHI hosts dozens of electronic
mailing lists on topics ranging from HCI and the Web, to HCI educations, to public policy and beyond. Those lists
range from dozens of subscribers to thousands, and are an excellent way to keep up with the field and with friends
and colleagues.

Finally, on behalf of ACM SGICHI, we again want to thank the conference committee and all of the hundreds of
volunteers who make this conference possible. Their work makes this a rewarding experience for all of us.

Gerrit C. van der Veer
SIGCHI President

John "Scooter" Morris
SIGCHI Vice-President for Conferences

1 of 2

4/18/2013 3:43 PM

CHI 2013 Compilation (Proceedings and Extended Abstracts)

file:///E:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2013/CHI_2013/forms/welcom...

(Return to Top)

About SIGCHI

CHI 2013 is sponsored by ACM's Special Interest Group on Computer-Human Interaction (ACM SIGCHI). ACM,
the Association for Computing Machinery, is an educational and scientific society uniting the world's computing
educators, researchers, and professionals to inspire dialogue, share resources, and address the field's challenges.
ACM strengthens the profession's collective voice through strong leadership, promotion of the highest standards,
and recognition of technical excellence. ACM supports the professional growth of its members by providing
opportunities for life-long learning, career development, and professional networking. ACM offers its more than
100,000 worldwide members cutting edge technical information through world class journals and magazines,
dynamic special interest groups, and globally recognized conferences.

Visit www.acm.org for more information about the ACM.

SIGCHI is the premier international society for professionals, academics, and students who are interested in
human-computer interaction (HCI). We provide a forum for the discussion of all aspects of HCI through our
conferences, including our flagship CHI conference, publications, web sites, email discussion groups, and other
services. We advance education in HCI through courses, workshops, and outreach, and we promote informal access
to a wide range of individuals and organizations involved in HCI. Members can be involved in HCI-related
activities with others in their region through local SIGCHI chapters. Come to the SIGCHI Town Hall meeting on
Wednesday, May 1, at 12:40 in Meeting Room 241, or visit www.sigchi.org to learn more about SIGCHI.

ACM, the Association for Computing Machinery http://www.acm.org/, is an educational and scientific society
uniting the world's computing educators, researchers and professionals to inspire dialogue, share resources and
address the field's challenges. ACM strengthens the profession's collective voice through strong leadership,
promotion of the highest standards, and recognition of technical excellence. ACM supports the professional growth
of its members by providing opportunities for life-long learning, career development, and professional networking.
ACM offers its 100,000 members cutting-edge technical information through world class journals and magazines,
dynamic special interest groups and globally recognized conferences.

2 of 2

4/18/2013 3:43 PM

CHI 2013 Compilation (Proceedings and Extended Abstracts)

file:///E:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2013/CHI_2013/forms/welcom...

Main Page

Organizers, Chairs' Messages,
& Reviewers

Program

Proceedings: Paper Sessions

Extended Abstracts

Best of CHI

Compilation Author Index

Sponsors & Supporters

(Return to Top)

Welcome to CHI 2013!

The CHI Papers and Notes program is continuing to grow along with many of our sister conferences. We are
pleased that CHI is still the leading venue for research in human-computer interaction.

CHI 2013 continued the use of subcommittees to manage the review process. Authors selected the subcommittee
they believed was best qualified to review their work: For clarity, we retained the same committee identifiers as
last year. Due to the continuing growth in submissions, we split several subcommittees into more manageable sizes.
We are pleased with the subcommittee process: By dividing the work, each paper received much more careful
discussion than would otherwise have been possible.

This year we had 1963 total submissions, including 1347 papers and 617 notes, representing a 24% growth over
last year. We accepted 392 submissions (20%): 316 papers and 76 notes.

The CHI review process demands a tremendous amount of work from all areas of the human-computer interaction
community. As co-chairs of the process, we are amazed at the ability of the community to organize itself to
accomplish this task. We would like to thank the 2680 individual reviewers for their careful consideration of these
papers. We also deeply appreciate the huge amount of time donated to this process by the 211-member program
committee, who paid their own way to attend the face-to-face program committee meeting, an event larger than the
average ACM conference.

We are proud of the work of the CHI 2013 program committee and hope that you enjoy these papers and notes,
which represent the best research in human-computer interaction.

Stephen Brewster, Glasgow University
Susanne Bødker, University of Aarhus
CHI 2013 Papers & Notes Chairs

1 of 1

4/18/2013 3:44 PM

.

Main Page

Organizers, Chairs' Messages,
& Reviewers

Program

CHI 2013 Proceedings Table of Contents (April 29th Paper Sessions)

Monday, April 29 AM Sessions

Monday, April 29 PM Sessions

Proceedings: Paper Sessions

Tuesday, April 30 AM Sessions

Tuesday, April 30 PM Sessions

Extended Abstracts

Best of CHI

Compilation Author Index

Sponsors & Supporters

(Return to Top)

Wednesday, May 1 AM Sessions

Wednesday, May 1 PM Sessions

Thursday, May 2 AM Sessions

Thursday, May 2 PM Sessions

Link to an accompanying video.

Best of CHI: Awarded by the Best Paper jury to the top 1% of submissions.

Honorable mention: Awarded by the program committee for up to 5% of submissions.

RepliCHI award: Awarded by the RepliCHI jury for best practices in replicating and extending
research results or for highly replicable experiments. New for CHI 2013.

(Return to Top)

Session 1: Managing Social Media
Session Chair: Louise Barkhuus, Stockholm University, Sweden

The Many Faces of Facebook: Experiencing Social Media as Performance, Exhibition,
and Personal Archive  (page 1)
Xuan Zhao, Cornell University, USA
Niloufar Salehi, Sharif University of Technology & Cornell University, Iran
Sasha Naranjit, Cornell University, USA
Sara Alwaalan, King Saud University & Cornell University, Saudi Arabia
Stephen Voida, Cornell University, USA
Dan Cosley, Cornell University, USA

Favors from Facebook Friends: Unpacking Dimensions of Social Capital  (page 11)
Yumi Jung, Michigan State University, USA
Rebecca Gray, Michigan State University, USA
Cliff Lampe, University of Michigan, USA
Nicole B. Ellison, University of Michigan, USA

Quantifying the Invisible Audience in Social Networks  (page 21)
Michael S. Bernstein, Stanford University & Facebook Inc., USA
Eytan Bakshy, Facebook Inc., USA
Moira Burke, Facebook Inc., USA
Brian Karrer, Facebook Inc., USA

Gender, Topic, and Audience Response: An Analysis of User-Generated Content on
Facebook  (page 31)
Yi-Chia Wang, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Moira Burke, Facebook, Inc., USA
Robert Kraut, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Using Contextual Integrity to Examine Interpersonal Information Boundary on Social
Network Sites  (page 35)
Pan Shi, The Pennsylvania State University, USA
Heng Xu, The Pennsylvania State University, USA
Yunan Chen,  University of California, Irvine, USA

...

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Session 3: Enhancing Access
Session Chair: Geraldine Fitzpatrick, Vienna University of Technology, Austria

Older Adults as Digital Content Producers  (page 39)
Jenny Waycott, The University of Melbourne, Australia
Frank Vetere, The University of Melbourne, Australia
Sonja Pedell, Swinburne University of Technology, Australia
Lars Kulik, The University of Melbourne, Australia
Elizabeth Ozanne, The University of Melbourne, Australia
Alan Gruner, Benetas Aged Care Services, Australia
John Downs, The University of Melbourne, Australia

Health Vlogger-Viewer Interaction in Chronic Illness Management  (page 49)
Leslie S. Liu, University of Washington, USA
Jina Huh, University of Washington, USA
Tina Neogi, University of Washington, USA
Kori Inkpen, Microsoft Research, USA
Wanda Pratt, University of Washington, USA

Accessible Online Content Creation by End Users  (page 59)
Katie Kuksenok, University of Washington, USA
Michael Brooks, University of Washington, USA
Jennifer Mankoff, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Augmented Endurance: Controlling Fatigue While Handling Objects By Affecting
Weight Perception Using Augmented Reality  (page 69)
Yuki Ban, The University of Tokyo, Japan
Takuji Narumi, The University of Tokyo, Japan
Tatsuya Fujii, The University of Tokyo, Japan
Sho Sakurai, The University of Tokyo, Japan
Jun Imura, The University of Tokyo, Japan
Tomohiro Tanikawa, The University of Tokyo, Japan
Michitaka Hirose, The University of Tokyo, Japan

Session 5: Learning
Session Chair: Andruid Kerne, Interface Ecology Lab, USA

In Search of Learning: Facilitating Data Analysis in Educational Games  (page 79)
Erik Harpstead, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Brad A. Myers, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Vincent Aleven, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Optimizing Challenge in an Educational Game Using Large-Scale Design Experiments  (page 89)
Derek Lomas, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Kishan Patel, DA-IICT, India
Jodi L. Forlizzi, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Kenneth R. Koedinger, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

From Competition to Metacognition: Designing Diverse, Sustainable Educational Games  (page 99)
Stephen R. Foster, University of California, San Diego, USA
Sarah Esper, University of California, San Diego, USA
William G. Griswold, University of California, San Diego, USA

  Why Interactive Learning Environments Can Have It All: Resolving Design Conflicts

Between Competing Goals  (page 109)
Martina A. Rau, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Vincent Aleven, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Nikol Rummel, Ruhr-Universität Bochum, Germany
Stacie Rohrbach, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Session 10: Interaction in the Wild
Session Chair: Marina Jirotka, University of Oxford, UK

Electric Materialities and Interactive Technology  (page 119)
James Pierce, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Eric Paulos, University of California, Berkeley, USA

(Return to Top)

A Conversation Between Trees: What Data Feels Like in the Forest  (page 129)
Rachel Jacobs, The University of Nottingham, UK
Steve Benford, The University of Nottingham, UK
Mark Selby, The University of Nottingham, UK
Mike Golembewski, The University of Nottingham, UK
Dominic Price, The University of Nottingham, UK

Gabriella Giannachi, The University of Exeter, UK

Unlimited Editions: Three Approaches to the Dissemination and Display of Digital Art  (page
139)
Mark Blythe, Northumbria University, UK
Jo Briggs, Northumbria University, UK
Jonathan Hook, Newcastle University, UK
Peter Wright, Newcastle University, UK
Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University, UK

See Me, Feel Me, Touch Me, Hear Me': Trajectories and Interpretation in a Sculpture Garden
(page 149)
Lesley Fosh, The University of Nottingham, UK
Steve Benford, The University of Nottingham, UK
Stuart Reeves, The University of Nottingham, UK
Boriana Koleva, The University of Nottingham, UK
Patrick Brundell, The University of Nottingham, UK

Session 14: 3D User Interfaces
Session Chair: Pierre Cubaud, CNAM, France

Pointing at 3D Target Projections with One-Eyed and Stereo Cursors  (page 159)
Robert J. Teather, York University, Canada
Wolfgang Stuerzlinger, York University, Canada

Creating and Analyzing Stereoscopic 3D Graphical User Interfaces in Digital Games  (page 169)
Jonas Schild, University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany
Liane Bölicke, University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany
Joseph J. LaViola Jr., University of Central Florida, USA
Maic Masuch, University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany

BeThere: 3D Mobile Collaboration with Spatial Input  (page 179)
Rajinder S. Sodhi, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA
Brett R. Jones, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA
David Forsyth, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA
Brian P. Bailey, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA
Giuliano Maciocci, Qualcomm Research Cambridge, UK

SpaceTop: Integrating 2D and Spatial 3D Interactions in a See-Through Desktop
Environment  (page 189)
Jinha Lee, MIT Media Laboratory, USA
Alex Olwal, MIT Media Laboratory, USA
Hiroshi Ishii, MIT Media Laboratory, USA
Cati Boulanger, Microsoft Applied Sciences Group, USA

3D Object Position Using Automatic Viewpoint Transitions  (page 193)
Michaël Ortega, Université Grenoble I / CNRS, France

Session 15: Crowdsourcing: People Power
Session Chair: Tapan Parikh, University of California, Berkeley, USA

Form Digitization in BPO: From Outsourcing to Crowdsourcing?  (page 197)
Jacki O'Neill, Xerox Research Centre Europe, France
Shourya Roy, Xerox Research Centre India, India
Antonietta Grasso, Xerox Research Centre Europe, France
David Martin, Xerox Research Centre Europe, France

Crowdsourcing Performance Evaluations of User Interfaces  (page 207)
Steven Komarov, Harvard University, USA
Katharina Reinecke, Harvard University, USA
Krzysztof Z. Gajos, Harvard University, USA

A Multi-Site Field Study of Crowdsourced Contextual Help: Usage and Perspectives
of End Users and Software Teams  (page 217)
Parmit K. Chilana, University of Washingto n, USA
Amy J. Ko, University of Washington, USA
Jacob O. Wobbrock, University of Washington, USA
Tovi Grossman, Autodesk Research, Canada

A Pilot Study of Using Crowds in the Classroom  (page 227)
Steven Dow, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Elizabeth Gerber, Northwestern University, USA
Audris Wong, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

CHI 2013 Compilation (Proceedings April 29th Table of Contents)

file:///E:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2013/CHI_2013/forms/proceed...

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Session 16: Multitouch and Gesture
Session Chair: James Fogarty, University of Washington, USA

Flexpad: Highly Flexible Bending Interactions for Projected Handheld Displays  (page
237)
Jürgen Steimle, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Andreas Jordt, Christian-Albrechts-Universität, Germany
Pattie Maes, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA

A Multi-Touch Interface for Fast Architectural Sketching and Massing  (page 247)
Qian Sun, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
Juncong Lin, Xiamen University, China
Chi-Wing Fu, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
Sawako Kaijima, Singapore University of Technology and Design, Singapore
Ying He, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore

Gesture Studio: Authoring Multi-Touch Interactions Through Demonstration and
Declaration  (page 257)
Hao Lü, University of Washington, USA
Yang Li, Google Research, USA

EventHurdle: Supporting Designers' Exploratory Interaction Prototyping with
Gesture-Based Sensors  (page 267)
Ju-Whan Kim, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Tek-Jin Nam, KAIST, Republic of Korea

Small, Medium, or Large? Estimating the User-Perceived Scale of Stroke Gestures
(page 277)
Radu-Daniel Vatavu, University Stefan cel Mare of Suceava, Romania
Géry Casiez, LIFL & INRIA Lille, University of Lille, France
Laurent Grisoni, University Lille, France

Indirect Shear Force Estimation for Multi-Point Shear Force Operations  (page 281)
Seongkook Heo, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Geehyuk Lee, KAIST, Republic of Korea

Session 19: Gaze
Session Chair: Lyn Bartram, Simon Fraser University, Canada

Still Looking: Investigating Seamless Gaze-Supported Selection, Positioning, and
Manipulation of Distant Targets  (page 285)
Sophie Stellmach, Technische Universität Dresden, Germany
Raimund Dachselt, Technische Universität Dresden, Germany

Individual User Characteristics and Information Visualization: Connecting the Dots
Through Eye Tracking  (page 295)
Dereck Toker, University of British Columbia, Canada
Cristina Conati, University of British Columbia, Canada
Ben Steichen, University of British Columbia, Canada
Giuseppe Carenini, University of British Columbia, Canada

EyeContext: Recognition of High-Level Contextual Cues from Human Visual
Behaviour  (page 305)
Andreas Bulling, Max Planck Institute for Informatics, Germany
Christian Weichel, Lancaster University, UK
Hans Gellersen, Lancaster University, UK

A Preliminary Investigation of Human Adaptations for Various Virtual Eyes in Video
See-Through HMDS  (page 309)
Joong Ho Lee, Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST), Republic of Korea
Sei-young Kim, Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST), Republic of Korea
Hae cheol Yoon, Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST), Republic of Korea
Bo Kyung Huh, Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST), Republic of Korea
Ji-Hyung Park, Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST), Republic of Korea

Session 20: Technologies for Life 1
Session Chair: Jeffrey Bigham, University of Rochester, USA

(Return to Top)

Digital Motherhood': How Does Technology Help New Mothers?  (page 313)
Lorna Gibson, University of Dundee, UK
Vicki L. Hanson,  University of Dundee, UK

5 of 11

4/18/2013 3:46 PM

Age-Related Performance Issues for PIN and Face-Based Authentication Systems
(page 323)
James Nicholson, Northumbria University, UK
Lynne Coventry, Northumbria University, UK
Pam Briggs, Northumbria University, UK

The Presentation of Health-Related Search Results and Its Impact on Negative
Emotional Outcomes  (page 333)
Carolyn Lauckner, Michigan State University, USA
Gary Hsieh, Michigan State University, USA

Age-Related Differences in Performance with Touchscreens Compared to Traditional
Mouse Input  (page 343)
Leah Findlater, University of Maryland, USA
Jon E. Froehlich, University of Maryland, USA
Kays Fattal, University of Maryland, USA
Jacob O. Wobbrock, University of Washington, USA
Tanya Dastyar, University of Maryland, USA

Access Lens: A Gesture-Based Screen Reader for Real-World Documents  (page 347)
Shaun K. Kane, University of Maryland, Baltimore County, USA
Brian Frey, University of Maryland, Baltimore County, USA
Jacob O. Wobbrock, University of Washington, USA

Session 22: Evaluation Methods 1
Session Chair: Anthony Jameson, German Research Center for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI), Germany

LEMtool - Measuring Emotions in Visual Interfaces  (page 351)
Gijs Huisman, University of Twente, Netherlands
Marco van Hout, SusaGroup, Netherlands
Betsy van Dijk, University of Twente, Netherlands
Thea van der Geest, University of Twente, Netherlands
Dirk Heylen, University of Twente, Netherlands

Exploring Personality-Targeted UI Design in Online Social Participation Systems  (page 361)
Oded Nov, Polytechnic Institute of New York University, USA
Ofer Arazy, University of Alberta, Canada
Claudia López, University of Pittsburgh, USA
Peter Brusilovsky, University of Pittsburgh, USA

Using Crowdsourcing to Support Pro-Environmental Community Activism  (page 371)
Elaine Massung, University of Bristol, UK
David Coyle, University of Bristol, UK
Kirsten Cater, University of Bristol, UK
Marc Jay, University of Bristol, UK
Chris Preist, University of Bristol, UK

Designing and Theorizing Co-Located Interactions  (page 381)
Thomas Reitmaier, University of Cape Town, South Africa
Pierre Benz, University of Cape Town, South Africa
Gary Marsden, University of Cape Town, South Africa

Scenario-Based Interactive Ui Design  (page 391)
Koki Kusano, NTT Service Evolution Laboratories, Japan
Momoko Nakatani, NTT Service Evolution Laboratories, Japan
Takehiko Ohno, NTT Service Evolution Laboratories, Japan

Regularly Visited Patches in Human Mobility  (page 395)
Yan Qu, placenous.com, USA
Jun Zhang, Pitney Bowes Inc., USA

Session 24: Co-Design with Users
Session Chair: Andrea Parker, Northeastern University, USA

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Large-Scale Participation: A Case Study of a Participatory Approach to Developing a New
Public Library  (page 399)
Peter Dalsgaard, Aarhus University, Denmark
Eva Eriksson, Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden

Probing Bus Stop for Insights on Transit Co-Design  (page 409)
Daisy Yoo, University of Washington, USA
John Zimmerman, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Tad Hirsch, University of Washington, USA

A Value Sensitive Action-Reflection Model: Evolving a Co-Design Space with Stakeholder
and Designer Prompts  (page 419)
Daisy Yoo, University of Washington, USA
Alina Huldtgren, Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands
Jill Palzkill Woelfer, University of Washington, USA
David G. Hendry, University of Washington, USA
Batya Friedman, University of Washington, USA

Configuring Participation: On How We Involve People in Design  (page 429)
John Vines, Newcastle University, UK
Rachel Clarke, Newcastle University, UK
Peter Wright, Newcastle University, UK
John McCarthy, University College Cork, Ireland
Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University, UK

Session 26: Language and Translation
Session Chair: Gahgene Gweon, KAIST, Korea

The Efficacy of Human Post-Editing for Language Translation  (page 439)
Spence Green, Stanford University, USA
Jeffrey Heer, Stanford University, USA
Christopher D. Manning, Stanford University, USA

Same Translation But Different Experience: The Effects of Highlighting on Machine-
Translated Conversations  (page 449)
Ge Gao, Cornell University, USA
Hao-Chuan Wang, National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan
Dan Cosley, Cornell University, USA
Susan R. Fussell, Cornell University, USA

Improving Teamwork Using Real-Time Language Feedback  (page 459)
Yla R. Tausczik, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
James W. Pennebaker, The University of Texas at Austin, USA

SpatialEase: Learning Language Through Body Motion  (page 469)
Darren Edge, Microsoft Research Asia, China
Kai-Yin Cheng, Microsoft Research Asia & National Taiwan University, China
Michael Whitney, Microsoft Research Asia & National Taiwan University, China

Session 27: Brain Sensing and Analysis
Session Chair: Petra Isenberg, INRIA, France

Using fNIRS Brain Sensing to Evaluate Information Visualization Interfaces  (page 473)
Evan M. Peck, Tufts University, USA
Beste F. Yuksel, Tufts University, USA
Alvitta Ottley, Tufts University, USA
Robert J.K. Jacob, Tufts University, USA
Remco Chang, Tufts University, USA

  Weighted Graph Comparison Techniques for Brain Connectivity Analysis  (page 483)

Basak Alper, University of California, Santa Barbara, USA
Benjamin Bach, INRIA, France
Nathalie Henry Riche, Microsoft Research, USA
Tobias Isenberg, INRIA, France
Jean-Daniel Fekete, INRIA, France

At the Interface of Biology and Computation  (page 493)
Alex S. Taylor, Microsoft Research, UK
Nir Piterman, University of Leicester, UK
Samin Ishtiaq, Microsoft Research, UK
Jasmin Fisher, Microsoft Research, UK
Byron Cook, Microsoft Research, UK
Caitlin Cockerton, Microsoft Research, UK
Sam Bourton, QuantumBlack, UK
David Benque, Royal College of Art, UK

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Session 30: Crowdwork and Online Communities
Session Chair: Krzysztof Gajos, Harvard University, USA

Crowdfunding Inside the Enterprise: Employee-Initiatives for Innovation and
Collaboration  (page 503)
Michael Muller, IBM Research, USA
Werner Geyer, IBM Research, USA

Todd Soule, IBM Research, USA
Steven Daniels, IBM T.J. Watson Research, USA
Li-Te Cheng, IBM Research, USA

Community Insights: Helping Community Leaders Enhance the Value of Enterprise
Online Communities  (page 513)
Tara Matthews, IBM Research, USA
Steve Whittaker, University of California, Santa Cruz, USA
Hernan Badenes, IBM Research, Argentina
Barton A. Smith, IBM Research, USA
Michael Muller, IBM Research, USA
Kate Ehrlich, IBM Research, USA
Michelle X. Zhou, IBM Research, USA
Tessa Lau, Willow Garage, USA

CommunityCompare: Visually Comparing Communities for Online Community
Leaders in the Enterprise  (page 523)
Anbang Xu, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA
Jilin Chen, IBM Research, USA
Tara Matthews, IBM Research, USA
Michael Muller, IBM Research, USA
Hernan Badenes, IBM Buenos Aires, Argentina

Analyzing Crowd Workers in Mobile Pay-for-Answer Q&A  (page 533)
Uichin Lee, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, Republic of Korea
Jihyoung Kim, University of California, Los Angeles, USA
Eunhee Yi, LG UX R&D Lab & KAIST, Republic of Korea
Juyup Sung, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, Republic of Korea
Mario Gerla, University of California, Los Angeles, USA

Session 31: Keyboards and Hotkeys
Session Chair: Mark Dunlop, University of Strathclyde, UK

Octopus: Evaluating Touchscreen Keyboard Correction and Recognition Algorithms
via "Remulation"  (page 543)
Xiaojun Bi, Google, Inc., USA
Shiri Azenkot, University of Washington, USA
Kurt Partridge, Google, Inc., USA
Shumin Zhai, Google, Inc., USA

TapBoard: Making a Touch Screen Keyboard More Touchable  (page 553)
Sunjun Kim, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Jeongmin Son, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Geehyuk Lee, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Hwan Kim, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Woohun Lee, KAIST, Republic of Korea

Métamorphe: Augmenting Hotkey Usage with Actuated Keys  (page 563)
Gilles Bailly, Telekom Innovation Laboratories, TU Berlin, Germany
Thomas Pietrzak, Université de Lille 1, France
Jonathan Deber, University of Toronto, Canada
Daniel J. Wigdor, University of Toronto, Canada

Promoting Hotkey Use Through Rehearsal with ExposeHK  (page 573)
Sylvain Malacria, University of Canterbury, New Zealand
Gilles Bailly, Telekom Innovation Laboratories, TU Berlin, Germany
Joel Harrison, University of Canterbury, New Zealand
Andy Cockburn, University of Canterbury, New Zealand
Carl Gutwin, University of Saskatchewan, Canada

Session 32: Flexible Displays
Session Chair: Edward Lank, University of Waterloo, Canada

MorePhone: A Study of Actuated Shape Deformations for Flexible Thin-Film
Smartphone Notifications  (page 583)
Antonio Gomes, Queen's University, Canada
Andrea Nesbitt, Queen's University, Canada
Roel Vertegaal, Queen's University, Canada

Morphees: Toward High "Shape Resolution" in Self-Actuated Flexible Mobile
Devices  (page 593)
Anne Roudaut, University of Bristol, UK
Abhijit Karnik, University of Bristol, UK
Markus Löchtefeld, German Research Center for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI), Germany

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Sriram Subramanian, University of Bristol, UK

LightCloth: Sensible Illuminating Optical Fiber Cloth for Creating Interactive
Surfaces  (page 603)
Sunao Hashimoto, JST ERATO Igarashi, Japan
Ryohei Suzuki, JST ERATO Igarashi & The University of Tokyo, Japan
Youichi Kamiyama, JST ERATO Igarashi, Japan
Masahiko Inami, JST ERATO Igarashi & Keio University, Japan
Takeo Igarashi, JST ERATO Igarashi & The University of Tokyo, Japan

Bending the Rules: Bend Gesture Classification for Flexible Displays  (page 607)
Kristen Warren, Carleton University, Canada
Jessica Lo, Carleton University, Canada
Vaibhav Vadgama, Carleton University, Canada
Audrey Girouard, Carleton University, Canada

Session 34: Smart Tools, Smart Work
Session Chair: Steven Dow, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Turkopticon: Interrupting Worker Invisibility in Amazon Mechanical Turk  (page 611)
Lilly C. Irani, University of California, Irvine, USA
M. Six Silberman, Bureau of Economic Interpretation, USA

Don't Hide in the Crowd! Increasing Social Transparency Between Peer Workers
Improves Crowdsourcing Outcomes  (page 621)
Shih-Wen Huang, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA
Wai-Tat Fu, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA

Combining Crowdsourcing and Google Street View to Identify Street-Level
Accessibility Problems  (page 631)
Kotaro Hara, University of Maryland, USA
Vicki Le, University of Maryland, USA
Jon E. Froehlich, University of Maryland, USA

Labor Dynamics in a Mobile Micro - Task Market  (page 641)
Mohamed Musthag, University of Massachusetts, USA
Deepak Ganesan, University of Massachusetts, USA

Session 36: Creating and Authoring
Session Chair: Amy Ko, University of Washington, USA

Creativity Support for Novice Digital Filmmaking  (page 651)
Nicholas Davis, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Alexander Zook, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Brian O'Neill, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Brandon Headrick, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Mark Riedl, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Ashton Grosz, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Michael Nitsche, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA

AutoGami: A Low-Cost Rapid Prototyping Toolkit for Automated Movable Paper Craft
(page 661)
Kening Zhu, National University of Singapore, Singapore
Shengdong Zhao, National University of Singapore, Singapore

HyperSlides: Dynamic Presentation Prototyping  (page 671)
Darren Edge, Microsoft Research Asia, China
Joan Savage, Microsoft Research Asia & Indiana University-Purdue University, China
Koji Yatani, Microsoft Research Asia, China

SidePoint: A Peripheral Knowledge Panel for Presentation Slide Authoring  (page 681)
Yefeng Liu, Waseda University & Microsoft Research Asia, Japan
Darren Edge, Microsoft Research Asia, China
Koji Yatani, Microsoft Research Asia, China

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Session 38: Exploring Games
Session Chair: Lennart Nacke, University of Ontario Institute of Technology, Canada

Control Your Game-Self: Effects of Controller Type on Enjoyment, Motivation, and
Personality in Game  (page 685)
Max Birk, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Regan L. Mandryk, University of Saskatchewan, Canada

Mastering the Art of War: How Patterns of Gameplay Influence Skill in Halo  (page
695)
Jeff Huang, University of Washington, USA
Thomas Zimmermann, Microsoft Research, USA
Nachiappan Nagappan, Microsoft Research, USA
Charles Harrison, Microsoft Games Studio, USA
Bruce Phillips, Microsoft Games Studio, USA

Villains, Architects and Micro -Managers: What Tabula Rasa Teaches Us About Game
Orchestration  (page 705)
T.C. Nicholas Graham, Queen's University, Canada
Irina Schumann, University of Magdeburg & Queen's University, Germany
Mrunal Patel, Queen's University, Canada
Quentin Bellay, Queen's University, Canada
Raimund Dachselt, Technische Universität Dresden, Germany

Playing with Leadership and Expertise: Military Tropes and Teamwork in an ARG  (page 715)
Tamara Peyton, The Pennsylvania State University, USA
Alyson Leigh Young, University of Maryland, Baltimore County, USA
Wayne Lutters, University of Maryland, Baltimore County, USA

Session 42: Tables and Floors
Session Chair: Sriram Subramanian, University of Bristol, UK

GravitySpace: Tracking Users and Their Poses in a Smart Room Using a Pressure-
Sensing Floor  (page 725)
Alan Bränzel, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Christian Holz, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Daniel Hoffmann, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Dominik Schmidt, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Marius Knaust, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Patrick Lühne, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
René Meusel, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Stephan R. Richter, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Patrick Baudisch, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany

Improving Digital Object Handoff Using the Space Above the Table  (page 735)
Steven W.T. Sutcliffe, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Zenja Ivkovic, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
David R. Flatla, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Andriy Pavlovych, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Ian Stavness, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Carl Gutwin, University of Saskatchewan, Canada

An Evaluation of State Switching Methods for Indirect Touch Systems  (page 745)
Simon Voelker, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Chat Wacharamanotham, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Jan Borchers, RWTH Aachen University, Germany

Improving Touch Accuracy on Large Tabletops Using Predecessor and Successor
(page 755)
Max Möllers, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Norbert Dumont, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Stefan Ladwig, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Jan Borchers, RWTH Aachen University, Germany

Touchbugs: Actuated Tangibles on Multi-Touch Tables  (page 759)
Diana Nowacka, Newcastle University, UK
Karim Ladha, Newcastle University, UK
Nils Y. Hammerla, Newcastle University, UK
Daniel Jackson, Newcastle University, UK
Cassim Ladha, Newcastle University, UK
Enrico Rukzio, Ulm University, Germany
Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University, UK

(Return to Top)

Session 43: Design for Classrooms 1
Session Chair: Deborah Tatar, Virginia Tech, USA

(Return to Top)

The Effect of Virtual Achievements on Student Engagement  (page 763)
Paul Denny, The University of Auckland, New Zealand

A Trace-Based Framework for Analyzing and Synthesizing Educational Progressions  (page 773)
Erik Andersen, University of Washington, USA
Sumit Gulwani, Microsoft Research, USA
Zoran Popovic, University of Washington, USA

  Wikipedia Classroom Experiment: Bidirectional Benefits of Students' Engagement in

Online Production Communities  (page 783)
Rosta Farzan, University of Pittsburgh, USA
Robert E. Kraut, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

TypeRighting: Combining the Benefits of Handwriting and Typeface in Online
Educational Videos  (page 793)
Andrew Cross, Microsoft Research India, India
Mydhili Bayyapunedi, Microsoft Research India, India
Edward Cutrell, Microsoft Research India, India
Anant Agarwal, edX, USA
William Thies, Microsoft Research India, India

Tweeting for Class: Co-Construction as a Means for Engaging Students in Lectures  (page
797)
Jeremy Birnholtz, Northwestern University, USA
Jeff Hancock, Cornell University, USA
Daniela Retelny, Stanford University, USA

Session 46: Crowds and Activism
Session Chair: Jaime Teevan, Microsoft Research, USA

Delivering Patients to Sacré Coeur: Collective Intelligence in Digital Volunteer
Communities  (page 801)
Kate Starbird, University of Washington, USA

Does Slacktivism Hurt Activism?: the Effects of Moral Balancing and Consistency in
Online Activism  (page 811)
Yu-Hao Lee, Michigan State University, USA
Gary Hsieh, Michigan State University, USA

A Longitudinal Study of Follow Predictors on Twitter  (page 821)
C.J. Hutto, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Sarita Yardi, University of Michigan, USA
Eric Gilbert, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA

Session 47: Large and Public Displays
Session Chair: Xiang Cao, Microsoft Research Asia, China

High-Precision Pointing on Large Wall Displays Using Small Handheld Devices  (page 831)
Mathieu Nancel, Univ Paris-Sud & INRIA, France
Olivier Chapuis, Univ Paris-Sud & INRIA, France
Emmanuel Pietriga, INRIA, Orsay, France & INRIA Chile, France
Xing-Dong Yang, University of Alberta, Canada
Pourang Irani, University of Manitoba, Canada
Michel Beaudouin-Lafon, Univ Paris-Sud & INRIA, France

StrikeAPose: Revealing Mid-Air Gestures on Public Displays  (page 841)
Robert Walter, Telekom Innovation Laboratories, TU Berlin, Germany
Gilles Bailly, Telekom Innovation Laboratories, TU Berlin, Germany
Jörg Müller, University of the Arts & Telekom Innovation Laboratories, Germany

SideWays: A Gaze Interface for Spontaneous Interaction with Situated Displays  (page 851)
Yanxia Zhang, Lancaster University, UK
Andreas Bulling, Max Planck Institute for Informatics, Germany
Hans Gellersen, Lancaster University, UK

Session 50: Interacting Around Devices
Session Chair: Géry Casiez, LIFL & INRIA Lille, University of Lille, France

IllumiRoom: Peripheral Projected Illusions for Interactive Experiences  (page 869)
Brett R. Jones, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign & Microsoft Research, USA
Hrvoje Benko, Microsoft Research, USA
Eyal Ofek, Microsoft Research, USA
Andrew D. Wilson, Microsoft Research, USA

  WorldKit: Rapid and Easy Creation of Ad-Hoc Interactive Applications on Everyday

Surfaces  (page 879)
Robert Xiao, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Chris Harrison, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Scott E. Hudson, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Understanding Palm-Based Imaginary Interfaces: The Role of Visual and Tactile Cues When
Browsing  (page 889)
Sean Gustafson, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Bernhard Rabe, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Patrick Baudisch, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany

AD-Binning: Leveraging Around Device Space for Storing, Browsing and Retrieving Mobile
Device Content  (page 899)
Khalad Hasan, University of Manitoba, Canada
David Ahlström, Alpen-Adria-Universität Klagenfurt, Austria
Pourang Irani, University of Manitoba, Canada

Session 52: Design for the Home
Session Chair: Nadir Weibel, University of California, San Diego, USA

Designing Web-Connected Physical Artefacts for the 'Aesthetic' of the Home  (page 909)
Salu Ylirisku, Aalto University, Finland
Siân Lindley, Microsoft Research, UK
Giulio Jacucci, University of Helsinki, Finland
Richard Banks, Microsoft Research, UK
Craig Stewart, University of Dundee, UK
Abigail Sellen, Microsoft Research, UK
Richard Harper, Microsoft Research, UK
Tim Regan, Microsoft Research, UK

On the Relation of Ordinary Gestures to TV Screens: General Lessons for the Design of
Collaborative Interactive Techniques  (page 919)
Oskar Juhlin, Mobile Life @ Stockholm University, Sweden
Elin Önnevall, Mobile Life @ Stockholm University, Sweden

From Codes to Patterns: Designing Interactive Decoration for Tableware  (page 931)
Rupert Meese, The University of Nottingham, UK
Shakir Ali, The University of Nottingham, UK
Emily-Clare Thorne, Central Saint Martins College of Art and Design, UK
Steve Benford, The University of Nottingham, UK
Anthony Quinn, Central Saint Martins College of Art and Design, UK
Richard Mortier, The University of Nottingham, UK
Boriana N. Koleva, The University of Nottingham, UK
Tony Pridmore, The University of Nottingham, UK
Sharon Baurley, Brunel University, UK

Pass the iPad: Collaborative Creating and Sharing in Family Groups  (page 941)
Nicola Yuill, University of Sussex, UK
Yvonne Rogers, University College London, UK
Jochen Rick, Saarland University, Germany

Session 54: Social Creativity
Session Chair: Gary Hsieh, Michigan State University, USA

Revisiting Social Practices Surrounding Music  (page 951)
Tuck W. Leong, University of Technology, Sydney & Newcastle University, Australia
Peter Wright, Newcastle University, UK

  Write Here, Write Now!: An Experimental Study of Group Maintenance in

Collaborative Writing  (page 961)
Jeremy Birnholtz, Northwestern University, USA
Stephanie B. Steinhardt, Cornell University, USA
Antonella Pavese, Google, Inc., USA

Machinima Production Tools: A Vernacular History of a Creative Medium  (page 971)
Shad Gross, Indiana University, Bloomington, USA
Tyler Pace, Indiana University, Bloomington, USA
Jeffrey Bardzell, Indiana University, Bloomington, USA
Shaowen Bardzell, Indiana University, Bloomington, USA

Front-Camera Video Recordings as Emotion Responses to Mobile Photos Shared
Within Close-Knit Groups  (page 981)
Yanqing Cui, Nokia Research Center, Finland
Jari Kangas, Nokia Research Center, Finland
Jukka Holm, Nokia Research Center, Finland
Guido Grassel, Nokia Research Center, Finland

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Session 58: Design for Classrooms 2
Session Chair: Judy Kay, University of Sydney, Australia

Building Open Bridges: Collaborative Remixing and Reuse of Open Educational
Resources Across Organisations  (page 991)
Tim Coughlan, The University of Nottingham, UK
Rebecca Pitt, The Open University, UK
Patrick McAndrew, The Open University, UK

ARTFuL: Adaptive Review Technology for Flipped Learning  (page 1001)
Daniel Szafir, University of Wisconsin - Madison, USA
Bilge Mutlu, University of Wisconsin - Madison, USA

Challenges and Opportunities for Technology in Foreign Language Classrooms  (page
1011)
Katie Kuksenok, University of Washington, USA
Michael Brooks, University of Washington, USA
Qian Wang, University of Washington, USA
Charlotte P. Lee, University of Washington, USA

Tables in the Wild: Lessons Learned from a Large-Scale Multi-Tabletop Deployment
(page 1021)
Ahmed Kharrufa, Newcastle University, UK
Madeline Balaam, Newcastle University, UK
Phil Heslop, Newcastle University, UK
David Leat, Newcastle University, UK
Paul Dolan, Northumbria University, UK
Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University, UK

Session 59: Reflecting on Phones
Session Chair: Joonhwan Lee, Seoul National University, Republic of Korea

iPhone in vivo: Video Analysis of Mobile Device Use  (page 1031)
Barry Brown, Mobile Life @ Stockholm University, Sweden
Moira McGregor, City University, London, UK
Eric Laurier, University of Edinburgh, UK.University of Edinburgh

AnyType: Provoking Reflection and Exploration with Aesthetic Interaction  (page
1041)
Laura Devendorf, University of California, Berkeley, USA
Kimiko Ryokai, University of California, Berkeley, USA

Stories of the Smartphone in Everyday Discourse: Conflict, Tension & Instability
(page 1051)
Ellie Harmon, University of California, Irvine, USA
Melissa Mazmanian, University of California, Irvine, USA

Emotions, Experiences and Usability in Real-Life Mobile Phone Use  (page 1061)
Sari Kujala, Aalto University, Finland
Talya Miron-Shatz, Ono Academic College, Israel

Session 63: Technologies for Life 2
Session Chair: Predrag Klasnja, University of Michigan, USA

Echoes from the Past: How Technology Mediated Reflection Improves Well-Being
(page 1071)
Ellen Isaacs, Palo Alto Research Center, USA
Artie Konrad, University of California, Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz
Alan Walendowski, Samsung Research America, USA
Thomas Lennig, University of California, Santa Cruz, USA
Victoria Hollis, University of California, Santa Cruz, USA
Steve Whittaker, University of California, Santa Cruz, USA

The Dynamics of Younger and Older Adult's Paired Behavior When Playing an
Interactive Silhouette Game  (page 1081)
Mark Rice, Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore
Wah Pheow Tan, Temasek Polytechnic, Singapore
Jeremy Ong, Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore
Lih Jie Yau, Institute for Infocomm Research & Temasek Polytechnic, Singapore
Marcus Wan, Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore
Jamie Ng, Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Multiple Notification Modalities and Older Users  (page 1091)
David Warnock, University of Glasgow, UK
Marilyn McGee-Lennon, University of Glasgow, UK
Stephen Brewster, University of Glasgow, UK

The Power of Mobile Notifications to Increase Wellbeing Logging Behavior  (page
1095)
Frank Bentley, Motorola Mobility, USA
Konrad Tollmar, Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden

Session 64: Gesture Studies
Session Chair: Yang Li, Google Research, USA

Memorability of Pre-Designed and User-Defined Gesture Sets  (page 1099)
Miguel A. Nacenta, University of St Andrews, UK
Yemliha Kamber, University of St Andrews, UK
Yizhou Qiang, University of St Andrews, UK
Per Ola Kristensson, University of St Andrews, UK

(Return to Top)

Learning and Performance with Gesture Guides  (page 1109)
Fraser Anderson, University of Alberta, Canada
Walter F. Bischof, University of Alberta, Canada

Your Left Hand Can Do It Too! Investigating Intermanual, Symmetric Gesture Transfer
on Touchscreens  (page 1119)
Michelle Annett, University of Alberta, Canada
Walter F. Bischof, University of Alberta, Canada

The Challenges and Potential of End-User Gesture Customization  (page 1129)
Uran Oh, University of Maryland, USA
Leah Findlater, University of Maryland, USA

Session 65: Manipulating Video
Session Chair: Steven Feiner, Columbia University, USA

NoteVideo: Facilitating Navigation of Blackboard-Style Lecture Videos  (page 1139)
Toni-Jan Keith Palma Monserrat, National University of Singapore, Singapore
Shengdong Zhao, National University of Singapore, Singapore
Kevin McGee, National University of Singapore, Singapore
Anshul Vikram Pandey, National University of Singapore, Singapore

Direct Space-Time Trajectory Control for Visual Media Editing  (page 1149)
Stephanie Santosa, University of Toronto, Canada
Fanny Chevalier, University of Toronto, Canada
Ravin Balakrishnan, University of Toronto, Canada
Karan Singh, University of Toronto, Canada

Swifter: Improved Online Video Scrubbing  (page 1159)
Justin Matejka, Autodesk Research, Canada
Tovi Grossman, Autodesk Research, Canada
George Fitzmaurice, Autodesk Research, Canada

Direct Manipulation Video Navigation in 3D  (page 1169)
Cuong Nguyen, Portland State University, USA
Yuzhen Niu, Portland State University & Fuzhou University, USA
Feng Liu, Portland State University, USA

Session 67: Sustainable Energy
Session Chair: John Zimmerman, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

At Home with Agents: Exploring Attitudes Towards Future Smart Energy Infrastructures
(page 1173)
Tom A. Rodden, The University of Nottingham, UK
Joel E. Fischer, The University of Nottingham, UK
Nadia Pantidi, The University of Nottingham, UK
Khaled Bachour, The University of Nottingham, UK
Stuart Moran, The University of Nottingham, UK

Everyday Activities and Energy Consumption: How Families Understand the
Relationship  (page 1183)
Carman Neustaedter, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Lyn Bartram, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Aaron Mah, Simon Fraser University, Canada

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Cultivating Energy Literacy - Results from a Longitudinal Living Lab Study of a Home
Energy Management System  (page 1193)
Tobias Schwartz, Fraunhofer Institute for Applied Information Technology, Germany
Sebastian Denef, Fraunhofer Institute for Applied Information Technology, Germany
Gunnar Stevens, University of Siegen, Germany
Leonardo Ramirez, Fraunhofer Institute for Applied Information Technology, Germany
Volker Wulf, University of Siegen & Fraunhofer Institute for Applied Information
Technology, Germany

The Dubuque Electricity Portal: Evaluation of a City-Scale Residential Electricity
Consumption Feedback System  (page 1203)
Thomas Erickson, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Ming Li, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Younghun Kim, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Ajay Deshpande, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Sambit Sahu, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Tian Chao, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Piyawadee Sukaviriya, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Milind Naphade, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA

Session 69: Impairment and Rehabilitation
Session Chair: Karyn Moffatt, McGill University, Canada

PointAssist: Assisting Individuals with Motor Impairments  (page 1213)
Guarionex Salivia, Minnesota State University, USA
Juan Pablo Hourcade, University of Iowa, USA

Analyzing User-Generated YouTube Videos to Understand Touchscreen Use by People with
Motor Impairments  (page 1223)
Lisa Anthony, University of Maryland, Baltimore County, USA
YooJin Kim, University of Maryland, USA
Leah Findlater, University of Maryland, USA

Exploring & Designing Tools to Enhance Falls Rehabilitation in the Home  (page 1233)
Stephen Uzor, Glasgow Caledonian University, UK
Lynne Baillie, Glasgow Caledonian University, UK

(Return to Top)

Stroke Rehabilitation with a Sensing Surface  (page 1243)
Cati Boulanger, Microsoft Applied Sciences Group, USA
Adam Boulanger, Microsoft Applied Sciences Group, USA
Lilian de Greef, Harvey Mudd College, USA
Andy Kearney, Harvey Mudd College, USA
Kiley Sobel, Harvey Mudd College, USA
Russell Transue, Harvey Mudd College, USA
Z Sweedyk, Harvey Mudd College, USA
Paul Dietz, Microsoft Applied Sciences Group, USA
Steven Bathiche, Microsoft Applied Sciences Group, USA

PT Viz: Towards a Wearable Device for Visualizing Knee Rehabilitation Exercises  (page
1247)
Swamy Ananthanarayan, University of Colorado Boulder, USA
Miranda Sheh, University of Colorado Boulder, USA
Alice Chien, University of Colorado Boulder, USA
Halley Profita, University of Colorado Boulder, USA
Katie Siek, University of Colorado Boulder, USA

Session 71: Exergames and Beyond
Session Chair: Erika Poole, The Pennsylvania State University, USA

Understanding Exergame Users' Physical Activity, Motivation and Behavior Over
Time  (page 1251)
Andrew Macvean, Heriot-Watt University, UK
Judy Robertson, Heriot-Watt University, UK

Designing Action-Based Exergames for Children with Cerebral Palsy  (page 1261)
Hamilton A. Hernandez, Queen's University, Canada
Zi Ye, Queen's University, Canada
T.C. Nicholas Graham, Queen's University, Canada
Darcy Fehlings, Holland Bloorview Kids Rehabilitation Hospital & University of Toronto, Canada
Lauren Switzer, Holland Bloorview Kids Rehabilitation Hospital, Canada

(Return to Top)

4 Design Themes for Skateboarding  (page 1271)
Sebastiaan Pijnappel, RMIT University, Australia
Florian Mueller, RMIT University, Australia

Bodily Interaction in the Dark  (page 1275)
Linden Vongsathorn, University of Oxford, UK
Kenton O'Hara, Microsoft Research Cambridge, UK
Helena M. Mentis, Microsoft Research Cambridge, UK

Session 75: Full-Body Interaction
Session Chair: Karon MacLean, University of British Columbia, Canada

Make It Move: A Movement Design Method of Simple Standing Products Based on
Systematic Mapping of Torso Movements & Product Messages  (page 1279)
Jinyung Jung, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Seok-Hyung Bae, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Joon Hyub Lee, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Myung-Suk Kim, KAIST, Republic of Korea

Information Capacity of Full-Body Movements  (page 1289)
Antti Oulasvirta, Max Planck Institute for Informatics, Germany
Teemu Roos, University of Helsinki and Aalto University, Finland
Arttu Modig, University of Helsinki and Aalto University, Finland
Laura Leppänen, University of Helsinki and Aalto University, Finland

Body-Centric Design Space for Multi-Surface Interaction  (page 1299)
Julie Wagner, INRIA & Univ. Paris-Sud & CNRS & T´el´ecom ParisTech, France
Mathieu Nancel, INRIA & Univ. Paris-Sud & CNRS, France
Sean G. Gustafson, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
St´ephane Huot, INRIA & Univ. Paris-Sud & CNRS, France
Wendy E. Mackay, INRIA & Univ. Paris-Sud & CNRS, France

MotionMA: Motion Modelling and Analysis by Demonstration  (page 1309)
Eduardo Velloso, Lancaster University, UK
Andreas Bulling, Max Planck Institute for Informatics, Germany
Hans Gellersen, Lancaster University, UK

Session 76: Video Communication
Session Chair: Steve Harrison, Virginia Tech, USA

PanoInserts: Mobile Spatial Teleconferencing  (page 1319)
Fabrizio Pece, University College London, UK
William Steptoe, University College London, UK
Fabian Wanner, University College London, UK
Simon Julier, University College London, UK
Tim Weyrich, University College London, UK
Jan Kautz, University College London, UK
Anthony Steed, University College London, UK

Putting Things in Focus: Establishing Co-Orientation Through Video in Context  (page 1329)
James Norris, The University of Nottingham, UK
Holger Schnädelbach, The University of Nottingham, UK
Paul Luff, King's College, London, UK

HomeProxy: Exploring a Physical Proxy for Video Communication in the Home  (page 1339)
John C. Tang, Microsoft Research, USA
Robert Xiao, Microsoft Research & Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Aaron Hoff, Microsoft Research, USA
Gina Venolia, Microsoft Research, USA
Patrick Therien, Microsoft Research, USA
Asta Roseway, Microsoft Research, USA

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Session 80: Ideation Methods
Session Chair: Amy Hurst, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Brainstorm, Chainstorm, Cheatstorm, Tweetstorm: New Ideation Strategies for
Distributed HCI Design  (page 1343)
Haakon Faste, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Nir Rachmel, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Russell Essary, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Evan Sheehan, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Fashionable Shape Switching -- Explorations in Outfit-Centric Design  (page 1353)
Oskar Juhlin, Mobile Life @ Stockholm University, Sweden
Yanqing Zhang, Mobile Life @ Stockholm University, Sweden
Cristine Sundbom, Mobile Life @ Stockholm University, Sweden
Ylva Fernaeus, Mobile Life@KTH, KTH - Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden

Session 81: Pointing and Fitts Law
Session Chair: Tomer Moscovich, Lab126, USA

FFitts Law: Modeling Finger Touch with Fitts' Law  (page 1363)
Xiaojun Bi, Google, Inc., USA
Yang Li, Google, Inc., USA
Shumin Zhai, Google, Inc., USA

The Effect of Time-Based Cost of Error in Target-Directed Pointing Tasks  (page 1373)
Nikola Banovic, Autodesk Research & Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Tovi Grossman, Autodesk Research, Canada
George Fitzmaurice, Autodesk Research, Canada

How Low Can You Go? Human Limits in Small Unidirectional Mouse Movements  (page
1383)
Jonathan Aceituno, INRIALille, France
Géry Casiez, INRIA Lille & LIFL, University of Lille, France
Nicolas Roussel, INRIA, France

Can We Beat the Mouse with MAGIC?  (page 1387)
Ribel Fares, Texas State University - San Macros, USA
Shaomin Fang, Texas State University - San Macros, USA
Oleg Komogortsev, Texas State University - San Macros, USA

Session 82: Sensing Touch
Session Chair: Chris Harrison, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

GaussBits: Magnetic Tangible Bits for Portable and Occlusion-Free Near-Surface
Interactions  (page 1391)
Rong-Hao Liang, National Taiwan University, Taiwan
Kai-Yin Cheng, National Taiwan University, Taiwan
Liwei Chan, Academia Sinica, Taiwan
Chuan-Xhyuan Peng, National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, Taiwan
Mike Y. Chen, National Taiwan University, Taiwan
Rung-Huei Liang, National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, Taiwan
De-Nian Yang, Academia Sinica, Taiwan
Bing-Yu Chen, National Taiwan University, Taiwan

Swiss-Cheese Extended: An Object Recognition Method for Ubiquitous Interfaces Based on
Capacitive Proximity Sensing  (page 1401)
Tobias Grosse-Puppendahl, Fraunhofer IGD, Germany
Andreas Braun, Fraunhofer IGD, Germany
Felix Kamieth, Fraunhofer IGD, Germany
Arjan Kuijper, Fraunhofer IGD, Germany

HACHIStack: Dual-Layer Photo Touch Sensing for Haptic and Auditory Tapping Interaction
(page 1411)
Taku Hachisu, The University of Electro-Communications, Japan
Hiroyuki Kajimoto, The University of Electro-Communications, Japan

LongPad: A TouchPad Using the Entire Area Below the Keyboard of a Laptop Computer
(page 1421)
Jiseong Gu, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Seongkook Heo, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Jaehyun Han, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Sunjun Kim, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Geehyuk Lee, KAIST, Republic of Korea

Session 84: Displays Everywhere
Session Chair: Anne Roudaut, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany

(Return to Top)

Reasons to Question Seven Segment Displays  (page 1431)
Harold Thimbleby, Swansea University, UK

Sublimate: State-Changing Virtual and Physical Rendering to Augment Interaction
with Shape Displays  (page 1441)
Daniel Leithinger, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA

Sean Follmer, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Alex Olwal, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Samuel Luescher, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Akimitsu Hogge, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Jinha Lee, Media Lab, USA
Hiroshi Ishii, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA

  WatchIt: Simple Gestures and Eyes-Free Interaction for Wristwatches and Bracelets

(page 1451)
Simon T. Perrault, Telecom ParisTech, France
Eric Lecolinet, Telecom ParisTech, France
James Eagan, Telecom ParisTech, France
Yves Guiard, Telecom ParisTech, France

NailDisplay: Bringing an Always-Available Visual Display to Fingertips  (page 1461)
Chao-Huai Su, National Taiwan University, Taiwan
Liwei Chan, Academia Sinica, Taiwan
Chien-Ting Weng, National Taiwan University, Taiwan
Rong-Hao Liang, Academia Sinica, Taiwan
Kai-Yin Cheng, National Taiwan University, Taiwan
Bing-Yu Chen, National Taiwan University, Taiwan

An Interactive Belt-Worn Badge with a Retractable String-Based Input Mechanism  (page
1465)
Norman Pohl, Microsoft Research, Cambridge & University of Stuttgart, Germany
Steve Hodges, Microsoft Research, UK
John Helmes, Microsoft Research, UK
Nicolas Villar, Microsoft Research, UK
Tim Paek, Microsoft Research, USA

Session 86: Clinical Settings
Session Chair: Xiaomu Zhou, Rutgers University, USA

SimMed: Combining Simulation and Interactive Tabletops for Medical Education  (page 1469)
Ulrich von Zadow, Archimedes Exhibitions GmbH, Germany
Sandra Buron, Charité-Universitätsmedizin, Germany
Tina Harms, Charité-Universitätsmedizin, Germany
Florian Behringer, Charité-Universitätsmedizin, Germany
Kai Sostmann, Charité-Universitätsmedizin, Germany
Raimund Dachselt, Technische Universität Dresden, Germany

Imaging the Body: Embodied Vision in Minimally Invasive Surgery  (page 1479)
Helena M. Mentis, Microsoft Research, Cambridge, UK
Alex S. Taylor, Microsoft Research, Cambridge, UK

A Matter of Life and Death: Practical and Ethical Constraints in the Development of a Mobile Verbal
Autopsy Tool  (page 1489)
Jon Bird, University College London, UK
Peter Byass, Umeå University, University of the Witwatersrand & INDEPTH Network, Sweden
Kathy Kahn, Umeå University, University of the Witwatersrand & INDEPTH Network, South Africa
Paul Mee, Umeå University, University of the Witwatersrand & INDEPTH Network, South Africa
Edward Fottrell, Umeå University & University College London, UK

Session 88: Game Design
Session Chair: Regan Mandryk, University of Saskatchewan, Canada

How Does It Play Better? Exploring User Testing and Biometric Storyboards in
Games User Research  (page 1499)
Pejman Mirza-Babaei, University of Sussex, UK
Lennart E. Nacke, University of Ontario Institute of Technology, Canada
John Gregory, University of Ontario Institute of Technology, Canada
Nick Collins, University of Sussex, UK
Geraldine Fitzpatrick, Vienna University of Technology, Austria

Design Metaphors for Procedural Content Generation in Games  (page 1509)
Rilla Khaled, University of Malta, Malta
Mark J. Nelson, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Pippin Barr, University of Malta, Malta

Prototyping in PLACE: A Scalable Approach to Developing Location-Based Apps and
Games  (page 1519)
Anne Bowser, University of Maryland, USA
Derek Hansen, Brigham Young University, USA
Jocelyn Raphael, Brigham Young University, USA

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Matthew Reid, Brigham Young University, USA
Ryan Gamett, Brigham Young University, USA
Yurong He, University of Maryland, USA
Dana Rotman, University of Maryland, USA
Jenny Preece, University of Maryland, USA

Designing Reusable Alternate Reality Games  (page 1529)
Derek Hansen, Brigham Young University, USA
Elizabeth Bonsignore, University of Maryland, USA
Marc Ruppel, National Endowment for the Humanities, USA
Amanda Visconti, University of Maryland, USA
Kari Kraus, University of Maryland, USA

Session 92: Design for the Home
Session Chair: Albrecht Schmidt, University of Stuttgart, Germany

Designing for the Living Room: Long-Term User Involvement in a Living Lab  (page
1539)
Corinna Ogonowski, University of Siegen, Germany
Benedikt Ley, University of Siegen, Germany
Jan Hess, University of Siegen, Germany
Lin Wan, University of Siegen, Germany
Volker Wulf, University of Siegen, Germany

Leaving the Wild: Lessons from Community Technology Handovers  (page 1549)
Nick Taylor, Newcastle University, UK
Keith Cheverst, Lancaster University, UK
Peter Wright, Newcastle University, UK
Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University, UK

How Groups of Users Associate Wireless Devices  (page 1559)
Ming Ki Chong, Lancaster University, UK
Hans W. Gellersen, Lancaster University, UK

MultiNet: Reducing Interaction Overhead in Domestic Wireless Networks  (page 1569)
Anthony Brown, University of Nottingham, UK
Richard Mortier, University of Nottingham, UK
Tom Rodden, University of Nottingham, UK

Session 93: Novel Programming
Session Chair: Margaret Burnett, Oregon State University, USA

Use of an Agile Bridge in the Development of Assistive Technology  (page 1579)
Suzanne Prior, University of Abertay Dundee, UK
Annalu Waller, University of Dundee, UK
Rolf Black, University of Dundee, UK
Thilo Kroll, University of Dundee, UK

Codeable Objects: Computational Design and Digital Fabrication for Novice
Programmers  (page 1589)
Jennifer Jacobs, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Leah Buechley, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA

I Can Do Text Analytics! Designing Development Tools for Novice Developers  (page 1599)
Huahai Yang, IBM Research - Almaden, USA
Daina Pupons-Wickham, IBM Software - Silicon Valley, USA
Laura Chiticariu, IBM Research - Almaden, USA
Yunyao Li, IBM Research, USA
Benjamin Nguyen, IBM Software - Silicon Valley, USA
Arnaldo Carreno-Fuentes, IBM Research - Almaden, USA

Debugging Support for End-User Mashup Programming  (page 1609)
Sandeep Kaur Kuttal, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA
Anita Sarma, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, USA
Gregg Rothermel, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, USA

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Session 98: Temporal Design
Session Chair: Ann Blandford, University College London, UK

(Return to Top)

Authoring Personal Histories: Exploring the Timeline as a Framework for Meaning
Making  (page 1619)
Elizabeth Thiry, The Pennsylvania State University, USA
Siân Lindley, Microsoft Research, Cambridge, UK

Richard Banks, Microsoft Research, Cambridge, UK
Tim Regan, Microsoft Research, Cambridge, UK

Looking Past Yesterday's Tomorrow: Using Futures Studies Methods to Extend the
Research Horizon  (page 1629)
Jennifer Mankoff, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Jennifer A. Rode, Drexel University, USA
Haakon Faste, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Toying with Time: Considering Temporal Themes in Interactive Artifacts  (page 1639)
Sus Lundgren, Chalmers University of Technology & University of Gothenburg, Sweden

Designing with Traces  (page 1649)
Daniela K. Rosner, Stanford University, USA
Miwa Ikemiya, California College of the Arts, USA
Diana Kim, California College of the Arts, USA
Kristin Koch, California College of the Arts, USA

Session 99: Tactile Experiences
Session Chair: Marilyn McGee-Lennon, University of Glasgow, UK

Talking about Tactile Experiences  (page 1659)
Marianna Obrist, Newcastle University, UK
Sue Ann Seah, University of Bristol, UK
Sriram Subramanian, University of Bristol, UK

Tactile Perceptions of Digital Textiles: A Design Research Approach  (page 1669)
Douglas Atkinson, Brunel University, UK
Pawel Orzechowski, Heriot-Watt University, Scotland UK
Bruna Petreca, Brunel University, UK
Nadia Bianchi-Berthouze, University College London, UK
Penelope Watkins, Brunel University, UK
Sharon Baurley, Brunel University, UK
Stefano Padilla, Heriot-Watt University, Scotland UK
Mike Chantler, Heriot-Watt University, Scotland UK

The Roles of Touch During Phone Conversations: Long-Distance Couples' Use of
POKE in Their Homes  (page 1679)
Young-Woo Park, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Kyoung-Min Baek, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Tek-Jin Nam, KAIST, Republic of Korea

The Design and Field Observation of a Haptic Notification System for Timing
Awareness During Oral Presentations  (page 1689)
Diane Tam, University of British Columbia, Canada
Karon E. MacLean, University of British Columbia, Canada
Joanna McGrenere, University of British Columbia, Canada
Katherine J. Kuchenbecker, University of Pennsylvania, USA

Session 101: Public Displays
Session Chair: Hans Gellersen, Lancaster University, UK

  What Makes You Click: Exploring Visual Signals to Entice Interaction on Public Displays  (page

1699)
Hannu Kukka, University of Oulu, Finland
Heidi Oja, University of Oulu, Finland
Vassilis Kostakos, University of Oulu, Finland
Jorge Gonçalves, University of Oulu, Finland
Timo Ojala, University of Oulu, Finland

Interaction Techniques for Creating and Exchanging Content with Public Displays  (page
1709)
Florian Alt, University of Stuttgart, Germany
Alireza Shirazi, University of Stuttgart, Germany
Thomas Kubitza, University of Stuttgart, Germany
Albrecht Schmidt, University of Stuttgart, Germany

Screenfinity: Extending the Perception Area of Content on very Large Public
Displays  (page 1719)
Constantin Schmidt, TU Berlin, Germany
Jörg Müller, TU Berlin & University of the Arts, Germany
Gilles Bailly, TU Berlin, Germany

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Squaring the Circle: How Framing Influences User Behavior Around a Seamless
Cylindrical Display  (page 1729)
Gilbert Beyer, University of Munich, Germany
Florian Köttner, University of Munich, Germany
Manuel Schiewe, Fraunhofer FOKUS, Germany
Ivo Haulsen, Fraunhofer FOKUS, Germany
Andreas Butz, University of Munich, Germany

Session 103: Communicating Health
Session Chair: Yunan Chen, University of California, Irvine, USA

Messaging to Your Doctors: Understanding Patient-Provider Communications Via a
Portal System  (page 1739)
Si Sun, Rutgers University, USA
Xiaomu Zhou, Rutgers University, USA
Joshua C. Denny, Vanderbilt University, USA
Trent S. Rosenbloom, Vanderbilt University, USA
Hua Xu, Vanderbilt University, USA

HeartLink: Open Broadcast of Live Biometric Data to Social Networks  (page 1749)
Franco Curmi, Lancaster University, UK
Maria Angela Ferrario, Lancaster University, UK
Jen Southern, Lancaster University, UK
Jon Whittle, Lancaster University, UK

Technology Preferences and Routines for Sharing Health Information During the
Treatment of a Chronic Illness  (page 1759)
Carolyn E. Pang, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Carman Neustaedter, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Bernhard E. Riecke, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Erick Oduor, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Serena Hillman, Simon Fraser University, Canada

A Text Message a Day Keeps the Pulmonologist Away  (page 1769)
Tae-Jung Yun, Samsung Electronics, Co., Ltd., Republic of Korea
Rosa I. Arriaga, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA

Session 105: Reading and Writing
Session Chair: Xiangshi Ren, Kochi University of Technology, Japan

Community Enhanced Tutorials: Improving Tutorials with Multiple Demonstrations  (page
1779)
Benjamin Lafreniere, Autodesk Research & University of Waterloo, Canada
Tovi Grossman, Autodesk Research, Canada
George Fitzmaurice, Autodesk Research, Canada

Kolibri -Tiny and Fast Gestures for Large Pen-Based Surfaces  (page 1789)
Jakob F. Leitner, University of Applied Sciences Upper Austria, Austria
Florian Perteneder, University of Applied Sciences Upper Austria, Austria
Can Liu, University of Applied Sciences Upper Austria, Austria
Christian Rendl, University of Applied Sciences Upper Austria, Austria
Michael Haller, University of Applied Sciences Upper Austria, Austria

Graduate Student Use of a Multi-Slate Reading System  (page 1799)
Nicholas Chen, University of Maryland, Cornell University, & Microsoft Research,
Cambridge, UK
François Guimbretière, Cornell University, USA
Abigail Sellen, Microsoft Research, Cambridge, UK

The Wheels are Turning: Content Rotation on Steering Wheel Displays  (page 1809)
David Wilfinger, University of Salzburg, Austria
Martin Murer, University of Salzburg, Austria
Sebastian Osswald, University of Salzburg, Austria
Alexander Meschtscherjakov, University of Salzburg, Austria
Manfred Tscheligi, University of Salzburg, Austria

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Session 107: Studying Digital Artifacts
Session Chair: Siân Lindley, Microsoft Research, UK

(Return to Top)

Digital Artifacts as Legacy: Exploring the Lifespan and Value of Digital Data  (page
1813)
Rebecca Gulotta, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
William Odom, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Jodi Forlizzi, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Haakon Faste, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Design for Forgetting: Disposing of Digital Possessions After a Breakup  (page 1823)
Corina Sas, Lancaster University, UK
Steve Whittaker, University of California, Santa Cruz, USA

Fragmentation and Transition: Understanding Perceptions of Virtual Possessions
Among Young Adults in Spain, South Korea and the United States  (page 1833)
William Odom, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
John Zimmerman, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Jodi Forlizzi, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Ana López Higuera, University of Granada, Spain
Mauro Marchitto, University of Granada, Spain
José Cañas, University of Granada, Spain
Youn-kyung Lim, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Tek-Jin Nam, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Moon-Hwan Lee, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Yeoreum Lee, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Da-jung Kim, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Yea-kyung Row, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Jinmin Seok, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Bokyung Sohn, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Heather A. Moore, Vodafone Group Services, Germany

Instagram at the Museum: Communicating the Museum Experience Through Social
Photo Sharing  (page 1843)
Alexandra Weilenmann, University of Gothenburg, Sweden
Thomas Hillman, University of Gothenburg, Sweden
Beata Jungselius, University of Gothenburg, Sweden

Session 109: Ethics in HCI
Session Chair: Michael Massimi, Microsoft Research Cambridge, UK

Categorised Ethical Guidelines for Large Scale Mobile HCI  (page 1853)
Donald McMillan, Mobile Life @ Stockholm University, Sweden
Alistair Morrison, University of Glasgow, UK
Matthew Chalmers, University of Glasgow, UK

Benevolent Deception in Human Computer Interaction  (page 1863)
Eytan Adar, University of Michigan, USA
Desney S. Tan, Microsoft Research, USA
Jaime Teevan, Microsoft Research, USA

HCI in the Press: Online Public Reactions to Mass Media Portrayals of HCI Research  (page 1873)
John Vines, Newcastle University, UK
Anja Thieme, Newcastle University, UK
Rob Comber, Newcastle University, UK
Mark Blythe, Northumbria University, UK
Peter C. Wright, Newcastle University, UK
Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University, UK

The Emotional Wellbeing of Researchers: Considerations for Practice  (page 1883)
Wendy Moncur, University of Dundee, UK

Session 110: Embodied Interaction 2
Session Chair: Lian Loke, The University of Sydney, Australia

The Effects of Tactile Feedback and Movement Alteration on Interaction and Awareness
with Digital Embodiments  (page 1891)
Andre Doucette, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Regan L. Mandryk, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Carl Gutwin, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Miguel A. Nacenta, University of St Andrews, UK
Andriy Pavlovych, University of Saskatchewan, Canada

Designing for Perceptual Crossing: Designing and Comparing Three Behaviors  (page 1901)
Eva Deckers, Eindhoven University of Technology, The Netherlands
Stephan Wensveen, University of Southern Denmark, Denmark
Pierre Lévy, Eindhoven University of Technology, The Netherlands
Rene Ahn, Eindhoven University of Technology, The Netherlands

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

I See You There! Developing Identity-Preserving Embodied Interaction for Museum
Exhibits  (page 1911)
Francesco Cafaro, University of Illinois at Chicago, USA
Alessandro Panella, University of Illinois at Chicago, USA
Leilah Lyons, University of Illinois at Chicago, USA
Jessica Roberts, University of Illinois at Chicago, USA
Josh Radinsky, University of Illinois at Chicago, USA

In-Body Experiences: Embodiment, Control, and Trust in Robot-Mediated
Communication  (page 1921)
Irene Rae, University of Wisconsin, Madison, USA
Leila A. Takayama, Willow Garage, Inc., USA
Bilge Mutlu, University of Wisconsin, Madison, USA

Session 114: Design Research
Session Chair: Daniela Busse, Samsung R&D Research Center, USA

Crossing the Bridge over Norman's Gulf of Execution: Revealing Feedforward's True
Identity  (page 1931)
Jo Vermeulen, Hasselt University - tUL - iMinds, Belgium
Kris Luyten, Hasselt University - tUL - iMinds, Belgium
Elise van den Hoven, University of Technology, Sydney, Australia
Karin Coninx, Hasselt University - tUL - iMinds, Belgium

Q-Methodology as a Research and Design Tool for HCI  (page 1941)
Katie O'Leary, University of Washington, USA
Jacob O. Wobbrock, University of Washington, USA
Eve A. Riskin, University of Washington, USA

Design Research at CHI and its Applicability to Design Practice  (page 1951)
David Roedl, Indiana University Bloomington, USA
Erik Stolterman, Indiana University Bloomington, USA

DesignLibs: A Scenario-Based Design Method for Ideation  (page 1955)
Jared S. Bauer, University of Washington, USA
Julie A. Kientz, University of Washington, USA

Session 115: Developing the World
Session Chair: Jon Froehlich, University of Maryland, USA

Powering the Cellphone Revolution: Findings from Mobile Phone Charging Trials in Off-Grid
Kenya  (page 1959)
Susan P. Wyche, Michigan State University, USA
Laura L. Murphy, Tulane University, USA

Deep Conservation in Urban India and its Implications for the Design of Conservation
Technologies  (page 1969)
Yedendra B. Shrinivasan, IBM Research - Bangalore, India
Mohit Jain, IBM Research - Bangalore, India
Deva P. Seetharam, IBM Research - Bangalore, India
Abhishek Choudhary, IBM Research - Bangalore, India
Elaine Huang, University of Zurich, Switzerland
Tawanna Dillahunt, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Jennifer Mankoff, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Fighting against the Wall: Social Media use by Political Activists in a Palestinian Village  (page
1979)
Volker Wulf, University of Siegen, Germany
Konstantin Aal, University of Siegen, Germany
Ibrahim Abu Kteish, Birzeit University, Israel
Meryem Atam, University of Siegen, Germany
Kai Schubert, University of Siegen, Germany
George Yerousis, Birzeit University, Israel
David Randall, University of Siegen, Germany
Markus Rohde, University of Siegen, Germany

The Mobile Media Actor-Network in Urban India  (page 1989)
Neha Kumar, University of California, Berkeley, USA
Nimmi Rangaswamy, Microsoft Research India, India

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Session 116: Collaborative Creation
Session Chair: Xianghua Ding, Fudan University, China

Cascade: Crowdsourcing Taxonomy Creation  (page 1999)
Lydia B. Chilton, University of Washington, USA
Greg Little, oDesk, USA
Darren Edge, Microsoft Research Asia, China
Daniel S. Weld, University of Washington, USA
James A. Landay, University of Washington, USA

Let's Get Together: The Formation and Success of Online Creative Collaborations  (page
2009)
Burr Settles, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Steven Dow, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

A Tribute to Mad Skill: Expert Amateur Visuality and World of Warcraft Machinima  (page
2019)
Tyler Pace, Indiana University Bloomington, USA
Austin Toombs, Indiana University Bloomington, USA
Shad Gross, Indiana University Bloomington, USA
Tony Pattin, Indiana University Bloomington, USA
Jeffrey Bardzell, Indiana University Bloomington, USA
Shaowen Bardzell, Indiana University Bloomington, USA

Virtual Birding: Extending an Environmental Pastime into the Virtual World for Citizen
Science  (page 2029)
Mark Cottman-Fields, Queensland University of Technology, Australia
Margot Brereton, Queensland University of Technology, Australia
Paul Roe, Queensland University of Technology, Australia

  Warping Time for More Effective Real-Time Crowdsourcing  (page 2033)

Walter S. Lasecki, University of Rochester, USA
Christopher D. Miller, University of Rochester, USA
Jeffrey P. Bigham, University of Rochester, USA

Session 118: Aesthetics and the Web
Session Chair: Effie Law, University of Leicester, UK

Predicting Users' First Impressions of Website Aesthetics with a Quantification of Perceived
Visual Complexity and Colorfulness  (page 2049)
Katharina Reinecke, Harvard University, USA
Tom Yeh, University of Colorado at Boulder, USA
Luke Miratrix, Harvard University, USA
Rahmatri Mardiko, University of Maryland, USA
Yuechen Zhao, Harvard University, USA
Jenny Liu, Harvard University, USA
Krzysztof Z. Gajos, Harvard University, USA

Love It or Hate It! Interactivity and User Types  (page 2059)
Jennefer Hart, The University of Manchester, UK
Alistair G. Sutcliffe, The University of Manchester, UK
Antonella De Angeli, University of Trento, Italy

SPRWeb: Preserving Subjective Responses to Website Colour Schemes through
Automatic Recolouring  (page 2069)
David R. Flatla, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Katharina Reinecke, Harvard University, USA
Carl Gutwin, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Krzysztof Z. Gajos, Harvard University, USA

Session 120: Evaluation Methods 2
Session Chair: Manfred Tscheligi, University of Salzburg, Austria

Analyzing Users' Narratives to Understand Experience with Interactive Products  (page
2079)
Alexandre N. Tuch, University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Rune Trusell, University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Kasper Hornbæk, University of Copenhagen, Denmark

Extracting Usability and User Experience Information from Online User Reviews  (page
2089)
Steffen Hedegaard, University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Jakob Grue Simonsen, University of Copenhagen, Denmark

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

UMUX-LITE: When There's No Time for the SUS  (page 2099)
James R. Lewis, IBM Software Group, USA
Brian S. Utesch, IBM Software Group, USA
Deborah E. Maher, IBM Software Group, USA

Non-Parametric Decision Trees for Online HCI  (page 2103)
Torben Sko, Australian National University, Australia
Henry J. Gardner, Australian National University, Australia
Michael Martin, Australian National University, Australia

Session 122: Design for the Blind
Session Chair: Shaun Kane, University of Maryland, Baltimore County, USA

"Listen to It Yourself!" Evaluating Usability of What's Around Me? for the Blind  (page 2107)
Sabrina A. Panëels, McGill University, Canada
Adriana Olmos, McGill University, Canada
Jeffrey R. Blum, McGill University, Canada
Jeremy R. Cooperstock, McGill University, Canada

Visual Challenges in the Everyday Lives of Blind People  (page 2117)
Erin Brady, University of Rochester, USA
Meredith Ringel Morris, Microsoft Research, USA
Yu Zhong,  University of Rochester, USA
Samuel C. White, University of Rochester, USA
Jeffrey P. Bigham, University of Rochester, USA

Accessible Photo Album: Enhancing the Photo Sharing Experience for People with
Visual Impairment  (page 2127)
Susumu Harada, IBM Research -Tokyo, Japan
Daisuke Sato, IBM Research, Japan
Dustin W. Adams, University of California, Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz
Sri Kurniawan, University of California, Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz
Hironobu Takagi, BM Research -Tokyo, Japan
Chieko Asakawa, BM Research -Tokyo, Japan

(Return to Top)

Session 125: Mobile Interaction
Session Chair: Scott Hudson, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

A Study on Icon Arrangement by Smartphone Users  (page 2137)
Matthias Böhmer, GmbH (DFKI), Germany
Antonio Krüger, GmbH (DFKI), Germany

SeeSay and HearSay CAPTCHA for Mobile Interaction  (page 2147)
Sajad Shirali-Shahreza, University of Toronto, Canada
Gerald Penn, University of Toronto, Canada
Ravin Balakrishnan, University of Toronto, Canada
Yashar Ganjali, University of Toronto, Canada

(Return to Top)

Phoneprioception: Enabling Mobile Phones to Infer Where They Are Kept  (page 2157)
Jason Wiese, Microsoft Research & Carnegie Mellon University, USA
T. Scott Saponas, Microsoft Research, USA
A.J. Bernheim Brush, Microsoft Research, USA

Facilitating Parallel Web Browsing Through Multiple-Page View  (page 2167)
Wenchang Xu, Tsinghua University, China
Chun Yu, Tsinghua University, China
Songmin Zhao, Tsinghua University, China
Jie Liu, Tsinghua University, China
Yuanchun Shi, Tsinghua University, China

Session 126: Performing Interaction
Session Chair: Leah Findlater, University of Maryland, USA

Flights in My Hands: Coherence Concerns in Designing Strip-TIC, a Tangible Space for
Air Traffic Controllers  (page 2175)
Catherine Letondal, ENAC, France
Christophe Hurter, ENAC, France
Rémi Lesbordes, DGAC/DSNA/R&D, France
Jean-Luc Vinot, ENAC & University of Toulouse, France
Stéphane Conversy, ENAC & University of Toulouse, France

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

PixelTone: A Multimodal Interface for Image Editing  (page 2185)
Gierad P. Laput, University of Michigan & Adobe Research, USA
Mira Dontcheva, Adobe Research, USA
Gregg Wilensky, Adobe Research, USA
Walter Chang, Adobe Research, USA
Aseem Agarwala, Adobe Research, USA
Jason Linder, Adobe Research, USA
Eytan Adar, University of Michigan, USA
The Space Between the Notes: Adding Expressive Pitch Control to the Piano
Keyboard  (page 2195)
Andrew P. McPherson, Queen Mary University of London, UK
Adrian Gierakowski, Queen Mary University of London, UK
Adam M. Stark, Queen Mary University of London, UK
Reflexive Loopers for Solo Musical Improvisation  (page 2205)
François Pachet, Sony CSL Paris, France
Pierre Roy, Sony CSL Paris, France
Julian Moreira, Sony CSL Paris, France
Mark d'Inverno, Goldsmiths & Sony CSL Paris, France
8D: Interacting with a Relightable Glasses-Free 3D Display  (page 2209)
Matthew Hirsch, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Shahram Izadi, Microsoft Research UK, USA
Henry Holtzman, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Ramesh Raskar, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA

Session 129: Engagement
Session Chair: Eva Hornecker, Bauhaus Universität Weimar, Germany

Exploring the Effects of Space and Place on Engagement with an Interactive
Installation  (page 2213)
Imeh Akpan, University College London, UK
Paul Marshall, University College London, UK
Jon Bird, University College London, UK
Daniel Harrison, University College London, UK
Focused and Casual Interactions: allowing Users to Vary Their Level of Engagement
(page 2223)
Henning Pohl, University of Hanover & University of Glasgow, Germany
Roderick Murray-Smith, University of Glasgow, UK
Designing Engagement-Aware Agents for Multiparty Conversations  (page 2233)
Qianli Xu, Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore, Singapore
Liyuan Li, Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore, Singapore
Gang Wang, Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore, Singapore
Ownership and Control of Point of View in Remote Assistance  (page 2243)
Joel Lanir, IBM Haifa Research & University of Haifa, Israel
Ran Stone, IBM Research, Israel
Benjamin Cohen, IBM Research, Israel
Pavel Gurevich, IBM Research, Israel

Session 130: Knowledge Management
Session Chair: Volker Wulf, University of Siegen, Germany

Effects of Peer Feedback on Contribution: A Field Experiment in Wikipedia  (page 2253)
Haiyi Zhu, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Amy X. Zhang, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Jiping He, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Robert E. Kraut, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Aniket Kittur, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Activity-Centric Support for Ad Hoc Knowledge Work - A Case Study of Co-Activity
Manager  (page 2263)
Steven Houben, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Jakob E. Bardram, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Jo Vermeulen, Hasselt University - tUL - iMinds, Belgium
Kris Luyten, Hasselt University - tUL - iMinds, Belgium
Karin Coninx, Hasselt University - tUL - iMinds, Belgium
Turbulence in the Clouds: Challenges of Cloud-Based Information Work  (page 2273)
Amy Voida, University of California, Irvine, USA
Judith S. Olson, University of California, Irvine, USA
Gary M. Olson, University of California, Irvine, USA
Factors Impacting Community Response in an Interest-Sharing Network  (page 2283)
Iris Howley, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Todd Newman, Microsoft Research, USA

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Using an Open Card Sort with Children to Categorize Games in a Mobile Phone
Application Store  (page 2287)
Brendan Cassidy, University of Central Lancashire, UK
Dipti Saurabh Antani, University of Central Lancashire, UK
Janet C C. Read, University of Central Lancashire, UK

Session 131: Touch Interaction
Session Chair: Emmanuel Pietriga, INRIA, Orsay, France & INRIA Chile, France

How Fast Is Fast Enough? A Study of the Effects of Latency in Direct-Touch Pointing
Tasks  (page 2291)
Ricardo Jota, University of Toronto, Canada
Albert Ng, Microsoft Applied Sciences Group, USA
Paul Dietz, Microsoft Applied Sciences Group, USA
Daniel Wigdor, University of Toronto, Canada
TouchViz: A Case Study Comparing Two Interfaces for Data Analytics on Tablets  (page 2301)
Steven M. Drucker, Microsoft Research, USA
Danyel Fisher, Microsoft Research, USA
Ramik Sadana, Microsoft Research & Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Jessica Herron, Microsoft Research, USA
m.c. schraefel, Microsoft Research & University of Southampton, UK
  W3Touch: Metrics-Based Web Page Adaptation for Touch  (page 2311)

Michael Nebeling, ETH Zurich, Switzerland
Maximilian Speicher, ETH Zurich, Switzerland
Moira C. Norrie, ETH Zurich, Switzerland
FlashTouch: Data Communication Through Touchscreens  (page 2321)
Masa Ogata, Keio University, Japan
Yuta Sugiura, Keio University, Japan
Hirotaka Osawa, Keio University, Japan
Michita Imai, Keio University, Japan
Augmented Letters: Mnemonic Gesture-Based Shortcuts  (page 2325)
Quentin Roy, Telecom ParisTech & GE Healthcare, France
Sylvain Malacria, Telecom ParisTech & University of Canterbury, New Zealand
Yves Guiard, Telecom ParisTech, France
Éric Lecolinet, Telecom ParisTech, France
James Eagan, Telecom ParisTech, France

Session 133: Data Navigation
Session Chair: Andrea Bunt, University of Manitoba, Canada

Improving Navigation-Based File Retrieval  (page 2329)
Stephen Fitchett, University of Canterbury, New Zealand
Andy Cockburn, University of Canterbury, New Zealand
Carl Gutwin, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Carpé Data: Supporting Serendipitous Data Integration in Personal Information
Management  (page 2339)
Max Van Kleek, University of Southampton, UK
Daniel A. Smith, University of Southampton, UK
Heather S. Packer, University of Southampton, UK
Jim Skinner, University of Southampton, UK
Nigel R. Shadbolt, University of Southampton, UK
The Challenges of Specifying Intervals and Absences in Temporal Queries: A
Graphical Language Approach  (page 2349)
Megan Monroe, University of Maryland, USA
Rongjian Lan, University of Maryland, USA
Juan Morales del Olmo, HCIL & Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, Spain
Ben Shneiderman, University of Maryland, USA
Catherine Plaisant, University of Maryland, USA
Jeff Millstein, Oracle Corporation, USA
Beyond the Filter Bubble: Interactive Effects of Perceived Threat and Topic
Involvement on Selective Exposure to Information  (page 2359)
Q. Vera Liao, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA
Wai-Tat Fu, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA

Session 135: Passwords and Errors
Session Chair: Ian Oakley, University of Madeira, Portugal

My Profile Is My Password, Verify Me! The Privacy/Convenience Tradeoff of Facebook
Connect  (page 2369)
Serge Egelman, University of California, Berkeley, USA

Does My Password Go Up to Eleven? the Impact of Password Meters on Password
Selection  (page 2379)
Serge Egelman, University of California, Berkeley, USA

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Andreas Sotirakopoulos, University of British Columbia, Canada
Ildar Muslukhov, University of British Columbia, Canada
Konstantin Beznosov, University of British Columbia, Canada
Cormac Herley, Microsoft Research, USA
Back-of-Device Authentication on Smartphones  (page 2389)
Alexander De Luca, University of Munich (LMU), Germany
Emanuel von Zezschwitz, University of Munich (LMU), Germany
Ngo Dieu Huong Nguyen, University of Munich (LMU), Germany
Max-Emanuel Maurer, University of Munich (LMU), Germany
Elisa Rubegni, University of Lugano, Switzerland
Marcello Paolo Scipioni, University of Lugano, Switzerland
Marc Langheinrich, University of Lugano, Switzerland
Using Fake Cursors to Secure On-Screen Password Entry  (page 2399)
Alexander De Luca, University of Munich (LMU), Germany
Emanuel von Zezschwitz, University of Munich (LMU), Germany
Laurent Pichler, University of Munich (LMU), Germany
Heinrich Hussmann, University of Munich (LMU), Germany
Using Checksums to Detect Number Entry Error  (page 2403)
Sarah Wiseman, University College London, UK
Anna L. Cox, University College London, UK
Duncan P. Brumby, University College London, UK
Sandy J. J. Gould, University College London, UK
Sarah O'Carroll, University College London, UK

Session 141: Social Tagging
Session Chair: Margot Brereton, Queensland University of Technology, Australia

All the News That's Fit to Read: A Study of Social Annotations for News Reading  (page 2407)
Chinmay Kulkarni, Stanford University, USA
Ed Chi, Google, Inc., USA
"Shared Joy Is Double Joy": The Social Practices of User Networks Within Group
Shopping Sites  (page 2417)
Serena Hillman, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Carman Neustaedter, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Carolyn Pang, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Erick Oduor, Simon Fraser University, Canada
"I Need to Try This!": A Statistical Overview of Pinterest  (page 2427)
Eric Gilbert, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Saeideh Bakhshi, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Shuo Chang, University of Minnesota, USA
Loren Terveen, University of Minnesota, USA

Session 142: Food and Health
Session Chair: Katherine Isbister, Polytechnic Institute of New York University, USA

I Am What I Eat: Identity & Critical Thinking in an Online Health Forum for Kids  (page 2437)
Andrea Grimes Parker, Northeastern University, USA
Ian McClendon, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Catherine Grevet, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Victoria Ayo, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
WonTaek Chung, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Veda Johnson, Emory University, USA
Elizabeth D. Mynatt, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Domestic Food and Sustainable Design: A Study of University Student Cooking and Its
Impacts  (page 2447)
Adrian K. Clear, Lancaster University, UK
Mike Hazas, Lancaster University, UK
Janine Morley, Lancaster University, UK
Adrian Friday, Lancaster University, UK
Oliver Bates, Lancaster University, UK
Food Practices as Situated Action: Exploring and Designing for Everyday Food
Practices with Households  (page 2457)
Rob Comber, Newcastle University, UK
Jettie Hoonhout, Philips Research, The Netherlands
Aart T. van Halteren, Philips Research, The Netherlands
Paula Moynihan, Newcastle University, UK
Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University, UK
Tailoring Persuasive Health Games to Gamer Type  (page 2467)
Rita Orji, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Regan L. Mandryk, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Julita Vassileva, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Kathrin Maria Gerling, University of Saskatchewan, Canada

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Session 145: Mobile Applications
Session Chair: Sunny Consolvo, Google, USA

  When the Price Is Right: Enabling Time-Dependent Pricing of Broadband Data  (page 2477)

Soumya Sen, Princeton University, USA
Carlee Joe-Wong, Princeton University, USA
Sangtae Ha, Princeton University, USA
Jasika Bawa, Princeton University, USA
Mung Chiang, Princeton University, USA
Mobile Advertising: Evaluating the Effects of Animation, User and Content Relevance
(page 2487)
Marco de Sa, Facebook, Inc., USA
Vidhya Navalpakkam, Google, Inc., USA
Elizabeth F. Churchill, eBay Research Lab, USA
Validating a Mobile Phone Application for the Everyday, Unobtrusive, Objective
Measurement of Sleep  (page 2497)
Shaun Lawson, University of Lincoln, UK
Sue Jamison-Powell, University of Leicester, UK
Andrew Garbett, Newcastle University, UK
Conor Linehan, University of Lincoln, UK
Erica Kucharczyk, Loughborough University, UK
Sanne Verbaan, The Hague University of Applied Sciences, Netherlands
Duncan A. Rowland, University of Lincoln, UK
Kevin Morgan, Loughborough University, UK

Session 146: Crime and Conflicts
Session Chair: Jeffrey Bardzell, Indiana University Bloomington, USA

Protecting the Home: Exploring the Roles of Technology and Citizen Activism from a
Burglar's Perspective  (page 2507)
Sheena Lewis Erete, Northwestern University, USA
Digital Portraits: Photo-Sharing After Domestic Violence  (page 2517)
Rachel Clarke, Newcastle University, UK
Peter Wright, Newcastle University, UK
Madeline Balaam, Newcastle University, UK
John McCarthy, University College Cork, Ireland
Envisioning Across Generations: A Multi-Lifespan Information System for International
Justice in Rwanda  (page 2527)
Daisy Yoo, University of Washington, USA
Milli Lake, University of Washington, USA
Trond Nilsen, University of Washington, USA
Molly E. Utter, University of Washington, USA
Robert Alsdorf, unaffiliated, USA
Theoneste Bizimana, Healing and Rebuilding Our Communities, Rwanda
Lisa P. Nathan, University of British Columbia, Canada
Mark Ring, University of Washington, USA
Elizabeth J. Utter, unaffiliated, USA
Robert F. Utter, unaffiliated, USA
Batya Friedman, University of Washington, USA
Digital Apartheid: An Ethnographic Account of Racialised HCI in Cape Town Hip-Hop
(page 2537)
Gary W. Pritchard, Newcastle University, UK
John Vines, Newcastle University, UK

Session 147: Haptics
Session Chair: Koji Yatani, Microsoft Research Asia, China

Gesture Output: Eyes-Free Output Using a Force Feedback Touch Surface  (page 2547)
Anne Roudaut, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Andreas Rau, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Christoph Sterz, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Max Plauth, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Pedro Lopes, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Patrick Baudisch, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany

Reality Jockey: Lifting the Barrier Between Alternate Realities Through Audio and
Haptic Feedback  (page 2557)
Kevin Fan, Keio University, Japan
Hideyuki Izumi, Keio University, Japan
Yuta Sugiura, Keio University, Japan
Kouta Minamizawa, Keio University, Japan
Sohei Wakisaka, RIKEN, Japan
Masahiko Inami, Keio University, Japan

Naotaka Fujii, RIKEN, Japan
Susumu Tachi, Keio University, Japan
Real-Time Perception-Level Translation from Audio Signals to Vibrotactile Effects  (page
2567)
Jaebong Lee, Pohang University of Science and Technology (POSTECH), Republic of Korea
Seungmoon Choi, Pohang University of Science and Technology (POSTECH), Republic of Korea
Muscle-Propelled Force Feedback: Bringing Force Feedback to Mobile Devices  (page 2577)
Pedro Lopes, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Patrick Baudisch, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
uTouch: Sensing Touch Gestures on Unmodified LCDs  (page 2581)
Ke-Yu Chen, University of Washington, USA
Gabe A. Cohn, University of Washington, USA
Sidhant Gupta, University of Washington, USA
Shwetak N. Patel, University of Washington, USA

Session 149: Fabrication
Session Chair: Alex Olwal, Media Lab, USA

LaserOrigami: Laser-Cutting 3D Objects  (page 2585)
Stefanie Mueller, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Bastian Kruck, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Patrick Baudisch, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Evaluating the Efficiency of Physical Visualizations  (page 2593)
Yvonne Jansen, Université Paris-Sud & INRIA, France
Pierre Dragicevic, INRIA, France
Jean-Daniel Fekete, INRIA, France
Democratizing Technology: Pleasure, Utility and Expressiveness in DIY and Maker
Practice  (page 2603)
Theresa Jean Tanenbaum, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Amanda M. Williams, Wyld Collective Ltd., Canada
Audrey Desjardins, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Karen Tanenbaum, Simon Fraser University, Canada
FreeD - A Freehand Digital Sculpting Tool  (page 2613)
Amit Zoran, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Joseph A. Paradiso, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA

Session 151: Mental Health
Session Chair: Gavin Doherty, Trinity College Dublin, Ireland

A Design-Led Inquiry into Personhood in Dementia  (page 2617)
Jayne Wallace, Northumbria University, UK
Peter C. Wright, Newcastle University, UK
John McCarthy, University College Cork, Ireland
David Philip Green, Newcastle University, UK
James Thomas, Northumbria University, UK
Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University, UK
Designing Mobile Health Technology for Bipolar Disorder: a Field Trial of the Monarca
System  (page 2627)
Jakob E. Bardram, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Mads Frost, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Károly Szántó, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Maria Faurholt-Jepsen, University Hospital of Copenhagen, Denmark
Maj Vinberg, University Hospital of Copenhagen, Denmark
Lars Vedel Kessing, University Hospital of Copenhagen, Denmark
Understanding the Conflicting Demands of Family Caregivers Caring for Depressed
Family Members  (page 2637)
Naomi Yamashita, NTT Communication Science Laboratories, Japan
Hideaki Kuzuoka, University of Tsukuba, Japan
Keiji Hirata, Future University Hakodate, Japan
Takashi Kudo, Osaka University, Japan
Design to Promote Mindfulness Practice and Sense of Self for Vulnerable Women in
Secure Hospital Services  (page 2647)
Anja Thieme, Newcastle University, UK
Jayne Wallace, Northumbria University, UK
Paula Johnson, Calderstones Partnership NHS Foundation Trust, UK
John McCarthy, University College Cork, Ireland
Siân E. Lindley, Microsoft Research, UK
Peter C. Wright, Newcastle University, UK
Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University, UK
Thomas D. Meyer, Newcastle University, UK

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Session 158: Consent and Privacy
Session Chair: Sameer Patil, Aalto University, Finland

  Why Do People Seek Anonymity on the Internet? Informing Policy and Design  (page 2657)

Ruogu Kang, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Stephanie Brown, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Sara Kiesler, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Preference-Based Location Sharing: Are More Privacy Options Really Better?  (page 2667)
Bart P. Knijnenburg, University of California, Irvine & Samsung R&D Research Center, USA
Alfred Kobsa, University of California, Irvine, USA
Hongxia Jin, Samsung R&D Research Center, USA
The Secret Life of a Persona: When the Personal Becomes Private  (page 2677)
Elina Eriksson, KTH - Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden
Henrik Artman, Swedish Defence Research Agency (FOI), Sweden
Anna Swartling, Scania CV AB, Sweden
Consent for All: Revealing the Hidden Complexity of Terms and Conditions  (page
2687)
Ewa Luger, The University of Nottingham, UK
Stuart Moran, The University of Nottingham, UK
Tom Rodden, The University of Nottingham, UK

Session 162: Text Visualization
Session Chair: m.c. schraefel, University of Southampton, UK

Quantity Estimation in Visualizations of Tagged Text  (page 2697)
Michael A. Correll, University of Wisconsin, Madison, USA
Eric C. Alexander, University of Wisconsin, Madison, USA
Michael Gleicher, University of Wisconsin, Madison, USA
Contextifier: Automatic Generation of Annotated Stock Visualizations  (page 2707)
Jessica Hullman, University of Michigan, USA
Nicholas Diakopoulos, Interaction Foundry, USA
Eytan Adar, University of Michigan, USA
A Comparative Evaluation of Multiple Chat Stream Interfaces for Information-Intensive
Environments  (page 2717)
Yiran Wang, University of California, Irvine, USA
Andy Echenique, University of California, Irvine, USA
Martin Shelton, University of California, Irvine, USA
Gloria J. Mark, University of California, Irvine, USA
Effects of Visualization and Note-Taking on Sensemaking and Analysis  (page 2721)
Nitesh Goyal, Cornell University, USA
Gilly Leshed, Cornell University, USA
Susan R. Fussell, Cornell University, USA

Session 163: Sustainability
Session Chair: Elaine Huang, University of Zurich, Switzerland

Beyond Being Green: Simple Living Families and ICT  (page 2725)
Maria Håkansson, Cornell University & Södertörn, USA
Phoebe Sengers, Cornell University, USA
The Power of Play: Design Lessons for Increasing the Lifespan of Outdated Computers  (page
2735)
Derek Lomas, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Anuj Kumar, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Kishan Patel, DA-IICT, India
Dixie Ching, NYU, USA
Meera Lakshmanan, Not presently affiliated, India
Matthew Kam, American Institutes for Research, USA
Jodi L. Forlizzi, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
inAir: A Longitudinal Study of Indoor Air Quality Measurements and Visualizations  (page
2745)
Sunyoung Kim, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Eric Paulos, University of California, Berkeley, USA
Jennifer Mankoff, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
"I want to imagine how that place looks": Designing Technologies to Support
Connectivity Between Africans Living Abroad and Home  (page 2755)
Susan P. Wyche, Michigan State Univerisity, USA
Marshini Chetty, University of Maryland, USA

Session 164: Mobile Text Entry
Session Chair: Caroline Appert, University Paris-Sud, France

Improving Two-Thumb Text Entry on Touchscreen Devices  (page 2765)
Antti Oulasvirta, Max Planck Institute for Informatics, Germany
Anna Reichel, Max Planck Institute for Informatics, Germany
Wenbin Li, Max Planck Institute for Informatics, Germany
Yan Zhang, Max Planck Institute for Informatics, Germany
Myroslav Bachynskyi, Max Planck Institute for Informatics, Germany
Keith Vertanen, Montana Tech of The University of Montana, USA
Per Ola Kristensson, University of St Andrews, UK
Making Touchscreen Keyboards Adaptive to Keys, Hand Postures, and Individuals - A
Hierarchical Spatial Backoff Model Approach  (page 2775)
Ying Yin, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Tom Yu Ouyang, Google, Inc., USA
Kurt Partridge, Google, Inc., USA
Shumin Zhai, Google, Inc., USA
Gestures and Widgets: Performance in Text Editing on Multi-Touch Capable Mobile
Devices  (page 2785)
Vittorio Fuccella, Università di Salerno, Italy
Poika Isokoski, University of Tampere, Finland
Benoît Martin, Université de Lorraine, France
ContextType: Using Hand Posture Information to Improve Mobile Touch Screen Text
Entry  (page 2795)
Mayank Goel, University of Washington, USA
Alex Jansen, University of Washington, USA
Travis Mandel, University of Washington, USA
Shwetak N. Patel, University of Washington, USA
Jacob O. Wobbrock, University of Washington, USA
ZoomBoard: a Diminutive QWERTY Soft Keyboard Using Iterative Zooming for Ultra-
Small Devices  (page 2799)
Stephen Oney, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Chris Harrison, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Amy Ogan, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Jason Wiese, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Session 166: Design for Development
Session Chair: John Thomas, IBM T. J. Watson Research Center, USA

Job Opportunities Through Entertainment: Virally Spread Speech-Based Services for
Low-Literate Users  (page 2803)
Agha Ali Raza, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Farhan Ul Haq, Lahore University of Management Sciences, Pakistan
Zain Tariq, Lahore University of Management Sciences, Pakistan
Mansoor Pervaiz, Northeastern University, USA
Samia Razaq, Lahore University of Management Sciences, Pakistan
Umar Saif, Lahore University of Management Sciences, Pakistan
Roni Rosenfeld, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Some Evidence for the Impact of Limited Education on Hierarchical User Interface
Navigation  (page 2813)
Indrani Medhi, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, India
Meera Lakshmanan, temp, India
Kentaro Toyama, University of California, Berkeley, USA
Edward Cutrell, Microsoft Research Bangalore, India
Hustling Online: Understanding Consolidated Facebook Use in an Informal Settlement
in Nairobi  (page 2823)
Susan P. Wyche, Michigan State Univerisity, USA
Andrea Forte Forte, Drexel University, USA
Sarita Yardi Schoenebeck, University of Michigan, USA
VideoKheti: Making Video Content Accessible to Low-Literate and Novice Users  (page 2833)
Sebastien Cuendet, École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Switzerland
Indrani Medhi, Microsoft Research India, India
Kalika Bali, Microsoft Research India, India
Edward Cutrell, Microsoft Research India, India

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Session 168: Narrative and Materiality
Session Chair: Volkmar Pipek, University of Siegen, Germany

(Return to Top)

Design-Driven Narrative: Using Stories to Prototype and Build Immersive Design
Worlds  (page 2843)
Eric Spaulding, AT&T Foundry, USA
Haakon Faste, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Materials, Materiality, and Media  (page 2853)
Verena Fuchsberger, University of Salzburg, Austria
Martin Murer, University of Salzburg, Austria

Manfred Tscheligi, University of Salzburg, Austria
Mobiles, Music, and Materiality  (page 2863)
Neha Kumar, University of California, Berkeley, USA
Tapan S. Parikh, University of California, Berkeley, USA
Infrastructure and Vocation: Field, Calling and Computation in Ecology  (page 2873)
Steven J. Jackson, Cornell University, USA
Sarah Barbrow, University of Michigan, USA

Session 174: Design for Children
Session Chair: Michael Muller, IBM T.J. Watson Research, USA

Design Research by Proxy: Using Children as Researchers to Gain Contextual
Knowledge about User Experience  (page 2883)
Fenne van Doorn, TU Delft - Studiolab, Netherlands
Pieter Jan Stappers, TU Delft - Studiolab, Netherlands
Mathieu Gielen, TU Delft - Studiolab, Netherlands
FACIT PD: A Framework for Analysis and Creation of Intergenerational Techniques for
Participatory Design  (page 2893)
Greg Walsh, University of Baltimore, USA
Elizabeth Foss, University of Maryland, USA
Jason Yip, University of Maryland, USA
Allison Druin, University of Maryland, USA
Three Tensions in Participatory Design for Inclusion  (page 2903)
Harald Holone, Østfold University College, Norway
Jo Herstad, University of Oslo, Norway
Interview Approaches to Researching Embodiment  (page 2907)
Sara Price, Institute of Education, London, UK
Carey Jewitt, Institute of Education, London, UK

Session 175: Evaluation Methods 3
Session Chair: Gloria Mark, University of California, Irvine, USA

Using Behavioral Data to Identify Interviewer Fabrication in Surveys  (page 2911)
Benjamin Birnbaum, University of Washington, USA
Gaetano Borriello, University of Washington, USA
Abraham D. Flaxman, University of Washington, USA
Brian DeRenzi, University of Washington, USA
Anna R. Karlin, University of Washington, USA
Footprint Tracker: Supporting Diary Studies with Lifelogging  (page 2921)
Rúben Gouveia, Madeira Institute of Technology, Portugal
Evangelos Karapanos, Madeira Institute of Technology, Portugal
Investigating Self-Reporting Behavior in Long-Term Studies  (page 2931)
Andreas Möller, Technische Universität München, Germany
Matthias Kranz, Universität Passau, Germany
Barbara Schmid, Technische Universität München, Germany
Luis Roalter, Technische Universität München, Germany
Stefan Diewald, Technische Universität München, Germany
The Effect of Global Instructions on Think-Aloud Testing  (page 2941)
Sharon McDonald, University of Sunderland, UK
Helen Petrie, University of York, UK
Reifying Social Movement Trajectories  (page 2945)
Adam Fouse, University of California, San Diego, USA
Nadir Weibel, University of California, San Diego, USA
Christine Johnson, University of California, San Diego, USA
James D. Hollan, University of California, San Diego, USA

Session 178: Visual Perception
Session Chair: Paul Marshall, University College London, UK

Influencing Visual Judgment Through Affective Priming  (page 2949)
Lane Harrison, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, USA
Drew Skau, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, USA
Steven Franconeri, Northwestern University, USA
Aidong Lu, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, USA
Remco Chang, Tufts University, USA
Play It by Ear: A Case for Serendipitous Discovery of Places with Musicons  (page
2959)
Anupriya Ankolekar, Hewlett Packard Laboratories, USA
Thomas Sandholm, Hewlett Packard Laboratories, USA
Louis Yu, Pomona College, USA

  Waves: Exploring Idiographic Design for Live Performance  (page 2969)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Jonathan Hook, Newcastle University, UK
John McCarthy, University College Cork, Ireland
Peter Wright, Newcastle University, UK
Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University, UK
Effects of the Display Angle in Museums on User's Cognition, Behavior, and
Subjective Responses  (page 2979)
Junko Ichino, University of Electro-Communications, Japan
Kazuo Isoda, Dai Nippon Printing Co., Ltd., Japan
Ayako Hanai, Dai Nippon Printing Co., Ltd., Japan
Tetsuya Ueda, Dai Nippon Printing Co., Ltd., Japan

Session 179: Searching and Finding
Session Chair: Leong-Hwee Teo, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Costs and Benefits of Structured Information Foraging  (page 2989)
Aniket Kittur, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Andrew M. Peters, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Abdigani Diriye, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Trupti Telang, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Michael R. Bove, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Supporting Orientation During Search Result Examination  (page 2999)
Henry Feild, University of Massachusetts, USA
Ryen W. White, Microsoft Research, USA
Xin Fu, LinkedIn, USA
TrailMap: Facilitating Information Seeking in a Multi-Scale Digital Map via Implicit
Bookmarking  (page 3009)
Jian Zhao, University of Toronto, Canada
Daniel Wigdor, University of Toronto, Canada
Ravin Balakrishnan, University of Toronto, Canada
Leading People to Longer Queries  (page 3019)
Elena Agapie, Harvard University, USA
Gene Golovchinsky, FX Palo Alto Laboratory, Inc., USA
Pernilla Qvarfordt, FX Palo Alto Laboratory, Inc., USA
Pirates of the Search Results Page  (page 3023)
Kathy Baxter, Google, Inc., USA
Lori Wu Malahy, University of Washington, USA
Jeremy Lubin, Capriza, USA

Session 180: Mobile Gestures
Session Chair: Stephane Huot, INRIA, France

Bezel-Tap Gestures: Quick Activation of Commands from Sleep Mode on Tablets  (page 3027)
Marcos Serrano, Telecom ParisTech, France
Eric Lecolinet, Telecom ParisTech, France
Yves Guiard, Telecom ParisTech, France
iGrasp: Grasp-Based Adaptive Keyboard for Mobile Devices  (page 3037)
Lung-Pan Cheng, National Taiwan University, Taiwan
Hsiang-Sheng Liang, National Taiwan University, Taiwan
Che-Yang Wu, National Taiwan University, Taiwan
Mike Y. Chen, National Taiwan University, Taiwan
Multi-Touch Rotation Gestures: Performance and Ergonomics  (page 3047)
Eve Hoggan, University of Helsínkí, Finland
John Williamson, University of Glasgow, Scotland UK
Antti Oulasvirta, Max Planck Institute for Informatics, Germany
Miguel Nacenta, University of St Andrews, Scotland UK
Per Ola Kristensson, University of St Andrews, Scotland UK
Anu Lehtiö, University of Helsínkí, Finland
iRotateGrasp: Automatic Screen Rotation Based on Grasp of Mobile Devices  (page 3051)
Lung-Pan Cheng, National Taiwan University, Taiwan
Meng-Han Lee, National Taiwan University, Taiwan
Che-Yang Wu, National Taiwan University, Taiwan
Fang-I Hsiao, National Taiwan University, Taiwan
Yen-Ting Liu, National Taiwan University, Taiwan
Hsiang-Sheng Liang, National Taiwan University, Taiwan
Yi-Ching Chiu, National Taiwan University, Taiwan
Ming-Sui Lee, National Taiwan University, Taiwan
Mike Y. Chen, National Taiwan University, Taiwan

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Session 182: Design for Developers
Session Chair: Steven Drucker, Microsoft Research, USA

The Whats and Hows of Programmers' Foraging Diets  (page 3063)
David J. Piorkowski, Oregon State University, USA
Scott D. Fleming, University of Memphis, USA
Irwin Kwan, Oregon State University, USA
Margaret M. Burnett, Oregon State University, USA
Christopher Scaffidi, Oregon State University, USA
Rachel K. E. Bellamy, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, USA
Joshua Jordahl, Oregon State University, USA

How Tools in IDEs Shape Developers' Navigation Behavior  (page 3073)
Jan-Peter Krämer, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Thorsten Karrer, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Joachim Kurz, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Moritz Wittenhagen, RWTH Aachen University, Germany
Jan Borchers, RWTH Aachen University, Germany

  Webzeitgeist: Design Mining the Web  (page 3083)

Ranjitha Kumar, Stanford University, USA
Arvind Satyanarayan, Stanford University, USA
Cesar Torres, Stanford University, USA
Maxine Lim, Stanford University, USA
Salman Ahmad, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Scott R. Klemmer, Stanford University, USA
Jerry O. Talton, Intel Corporation, USA

Informal Cognitive Walkthroughs (ICW): Paring Down and Pairing Up for an Agile
World  (page 3093)
Valentina Grigoreanu, Microsoft Corporation, USA
Manal Mohanna, Microsoft Corporation, USA

Picode: Inline Photos Representing Posture Data in Source Code  (page 3097)
Jun Kato, The University of Tokyo, Japan
Daisuke Sakamoto, The University of Tokyo, Japan
Takeo Igarashi, The University of Tokyo, Japan

Session 184: Perception and Awareness
Session Chair: Joanna McGrenere, University of British Columbia, Canada

Modeling How People Extract Color Themes from Images  (page 3101)
Sharon Derie Lin, Stanford University, USA
Pat Hanrahan, Stanford University, USA

Reducing Disruption from Subtle Information Delivery During a Conversation: Mode
and Bandwidth Investigation  (page 3111)
Eyal Ofek, Microsoft Research, USA
Shamsi T. Iqbal, Microsoft Research, USA
Karin Strauss, Microsoft Research, USA

Adaptive Automation and Cue Invocation: The Effect of Cue Timing on Operator
Error  (page 3121)
Daniel Gartenberg, George Mason University, USA
Leonard A. Breslow, Naval Research Laboratory, USA
Joo Park, George Mason University, USA
J. Malcolm McCurry, Naval Research Laboratory, USA
J. Gregory Trafton, Naval Research Laboratory, USA

Distraction Beyond the Driver: Predicting the Effects of In-Vehicle Interaction on
Surrounding Traffic  (page 3131)
Dario D. Salvucci, Drexel University, USA

I Feel for My Avatar: Embodied Perception in VEs  (page 3135)
Sangseok You, University of Michigan, USA
S. Shyam Sundar, The Pennsylvania State University, USA

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Session 185: Spatial Interfaces
Session Chair: Daniel Wigdor, University of Toronto, Canada

Testing the Robustness and Performance of Spatially Consistent Interfaces  (page
3139)
Joey Scarr, University of Canterbury, New Zealand
Andy Cockburn, University of Canterbury, New Zealand
Carl Gutwin, University of Saskatchewan, Canada
Sylvain Malacria, University of Canterbury, New Zealand

Canyon: Providing Location Awareness of Multiple Moving Objects in a Detail View
on Large Displays  (page 3149)
Alexandra Ion, University of Applied Sciences Upper Austria, Austria
Y.-L. Betty Chang, University of Waterloo, Canada
Michael Haller, University of Applied Sciences Upper Austria, Austria
Mark Hancock, University of Waterloo, Canada
Stacey D. Scott, University of Waterloo, Canada

Designing Graphical Menus for Novices and Experts: Connecting Design
Characteristics with Design Goals  (page 3159)
Krystian Samp, National University of Ireland, Ireland

Binocular Cursor: Enabling Selection on Transparent Displays Troubled by Binocular
Parallax  (page 3169)
Joon Hyub Lee, KAIST, Republic of Korea
Seok-Hyung Bae, KAIST, Republic of Korea

Studying Spatial Memory and Map Navigation Performance on Projector Phones with
Peephole Interaction  (page 3173)
Bonifaz Kaufmann, Alpen-Adria Universität Klagenfurt, Austria
David Ahlström, Alpen-Adria Universität Klagenfurt, Austria

Session 187: Autism
Session Chair: Bilge Mutlu, University of Wisconsin, Madison, USA

  Why Do They Still Use Paper? Understanding Data Collection and Use in Autism

Education  (page 3177)
Gabriela Marcu, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Kevin Tassini, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Quintin Carlson, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Jillian Goodwyn, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Gabrielle Rivkin, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Kevin J. Schaefer, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Anind K. Dey, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Sara Kiesler, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

TOBY: Early Intervention in Autism through Technology  (page 3187)
Svetha Venkatesh, Deakin University, Australia
Dinh Phung, Deakin University, Australia
Thi Duong, Deakin University, Australia
Stewart Greenhill, Curtin University, Australia
Brett Adams, Curtin University, Australia

Evaluation of Tablet Apps to Encourage Social Interaction in Children with Autism
Spectrum Disorders  (page 3197)
Juan Pablo Hourcade, University of Iowa, USA
Stacy R. Williams, University of Iowa, USA
Ellen A. Miller, University of Iowa, USA
Kelsey E. Huebner, University of Iowa, USA
Lucas J. Liang, University of Iowa, USA

Investigating the Use of Circles in Social Networks to Support Independence of
Individuals with Autism  (page 3207)
Hwajung Hong, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Svetlana Yarosh, AT&T Research Labs, USA
Jennifer G. Kim, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA
Gregory D. Abowd, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
Rosa I. Arriaga, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA

(Return to Top)

Session 191: Information Visualization
Session Chair: Pierre Dragicevic, INRIA, France

Interactive Horizon Graphs: Improving the Compact Visualization of Multiple Time
Series  (page 3217)
Charles Perin, Univ. Paris-Sud & INRIA, France
Frédéric Vernier, Univ. Paris-Sud, France
Jean-Daniel Fekete, INRIA, France

Patina: Dynamic Heatmaps for Visualizing Application Usage  (page 3227)
Justin Matejka, Autodesk Research, Canada
Tovi Grossman, Autodesk Research, Canada
George Fitzmaurice, Autodesk Research, Canada

Evaluation of Alternative Glyph Designs for Time Series Data in a Small Multiple
Setting  (page 3237)
Johannes Fuchs, University of Konstanz, Germany
Fabian Fischer, University of Konstanz, Germany
Florian Mansmann, University of Konstanz, Germany
Enrico Bertini, New York University Polytechnic, USA
Petra Isenberg, INRIA, France

Motif Simplification: Improving Network Visualization Readability with Fan,
Connector, and Clique Glyphs  (page 3247)
Cody Dunne, University of Maryland, USA
Ben Shneiderman, University of Maryland, USA

Session 194: Social Media Practices
Session Chair: Sean Munson, University of Washington, USA

Limiting, Leaving, and (re)Lapsing: An Exploration of Facebook Non-Use Practices
and Experiences  (page 3257)
Eric P. S. Baumer, Cornell University, USA
Phil Adams, Cornell University, USA
Vera D. Khovanskaya, Cornell University, USA
Tony C. Liao, Cornell University, USA
Madeline E. Smith, Northwestern University, USA
Victoria Schwanda Sosik, Cornell University, USA
Kaiton Williams, Cornell University, USA

Predicting Postpartum Changes in Emotion and Behavior via Social Media  (page
3267)
Munmun De Choudhury, Microsoft Research, USA
Scott Counts, Microsoft Research, USA
Eric Horvitz, Microsoft Research, USA

"I Read My Twitter the Next Morning and Was Astonished" A Conversational
Perspective on Twitter Regrets  (page 3277)
Manya Sleeper, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Justin Cranshaw, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Patrick Gage Kelley, University of New Mexico, USA
Blase Ur, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Alessandro Acquisti, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Lorrie Faith Cranor, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Norman Sadeh, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Understanding Motivations for Facebook Use: Usage Metrics, Network Structure, and
Privacy  (page 3287)
Tasos Spiliotopoulos, University of Madeira, Portugal
Ian Oakley, University of Madeira, Portugal

Session 196: Different Perspectives
Session Chair: Janet Vertesi, Princeton University, USA

  What Is "Critical" about Critical Design?  (page 3297)
Jeffrey Bardzell, Indiana University Bloomington, USA
Shaowen Bardzell, Indiana University Bloomington, USA

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

Mind the Theoretical Gap: Interpreting, Using, and Developing Behavioral Theory in
HCI Research  (page 3307)
Eric B. Hekler, Arizona State University, USA
Predrag Klasnja, University of Michigan, USA
Jon E. Froehlich, University of Maryland, USA
Matthew P. Buman, Arizona State University, USA

Beyond Digital and Physical Objects: The Intellectual Work as a Concept of Interest
for HCI  (page 3317)
Melanie Feinberg, The University of Texas at Austin, USA

Critical Perspective on Persuasive Technology Reconsidered  (page 3327)
Fahri Yetim, University of Oulu, Finland

How Categories Come to Matter  (page 3331)
Lucian Leahu, Mobile Life @ SICS, Sweden
Marisa Leavitt Cohn, University of California, Irvine, USA
Wendy March, Intel Labs, USA

Session 198: Multi-Device Interaction
Session Chair: Kasper Hornbæk, University of Copenhagen, Denmark

Personal Clipboards for Individual Copy-and-Paste on Shared Multi-User Surfaces
(page 3335)
Dominik Schmidt, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Corina Sas, Lancaster University, UK
Hans Gellersen, Lancaster University, UK

Collaborative Sensemaking on a Digital Tabletop and Personal Tablets: Prioritization,
Comparisons, and Tableaux  (page 3345)
James R. Wallace, University of Waterloo, Canada
Stacey D. Scott, University of Waterloo, Canada
Carolyn G. MacGregor, University of Waterloo, Canada

A Comparative Evaluation of Touch-Based Methods to Bind Mobile Devices for
Collaborative Interactions  (page 3355)
Tero Jokela, Nokia Research Center, Finland
Andrés Lucero, Nokia Research Center, Finland

(Return to Top)

Session 199: On the Move
Session Chair: Florian Mueller, RMIT University, Australia

The Design Space of Body Games: Technological, Physical, and Social Design  (page 3365)
Elena Márquez Segura, Mobile Life @ SICS Swedish ICT AB, Sweden
Annika Waern,  Mobile Life @ Stockholm University, Sweden
Jin Moen, Movinto Fun AB, Sweden
Carolina Johansson, Mobile Life @ Stockholm University, Sweden

(Return to Top)

Seeing Movement Qualities  (page 3375)
Helena M. Mentis, Microsoft Research, UK
Carolina Johansson, Mobile Life @ Stockholm University, Sweden

CrashAlert: Enhancing Peripheral Alertness for Eyes-Busy Mobile Interaction While
Walking  (page 3385)
Juan David Hincapié-Ramos, University of Manitoba, Canada
Pourang Irani,  University of Manitoba, Canada

Three Perspectives on Behavior Change for Serious Games  (page 3389)
Theresa Jean Tanenbaum,  Simon Fraser University, Canada
Alissa N. Antle, Simon Fraser University, Canada
John Robinson, University of British Columbia, Canada

Session 201: Understanding Privacy
Session Chair: Serge Egelman, University of California, Berkeley, USA

Privacy as Part of the App Decision-Making Process  (page 3393)
Patrick Gage Kelley, University of New Mexico, USA
Lorrie Faith Cranor, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Norman Sadeh, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
"Everybody Knows What You're Doing": A Critical Design Approach to Personal Informatics
(page 3403)
Vera Khovanskaya, Cornell University, USA
Eric P. S. Baumer, Cornell University, USA
Dan Cosley, Cornell University, USA
Stephen Voida, Cornell University, USA
Geri Gay, Cornell University, USA
Shifting Dynamics or Breaking Sacred Traditions? The Role of Technology in Twelve-Step
Fellowships  (page 3413)
Svetlana Yarosh, AT&T Research Labs, USA
Taking Data Exposure into Account: How Does It Affect the Choice of Sign-In Accounts?
(page 3423)
Shahar Ronen, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
Oriana Riva, Microsoft Research, USA
Maritza Johnson, University of California, Berkeley, USA
Donald Thompson, Microsoft Research, USA
Understanding the Privacy-Personalization Dilemma for Web Search: a User Perspective
(page 3427)
Saurabh Panjwani, Bell Labs Research, India, India
Nisheeth Shrivastava, Bell Labs Research, India, India
Saurabh Shukla, Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, India
Sharad Jaiswal, Bell Labs Research, India, India

Session 205: Design Strategies
Session Chair: Mark Selby, The University of Nottingham, UK

Slow Design for Meaningful Interactions  (page 3431)
Barbara Grosse-Hering, Designit, Germany
Jon Mason, Philips Research, The Netherlands
Dzmitry Aliakseyeu, Philips Research, The Netherlands
Conny A. Bakker, Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands
Pieter M.A. Desmet, Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands
Making Design Probes Work  (page 3441)
Jayne Wallace, Northumbria University, UK
John McCarthy, University College Cork, Ireland
Peter C. Wright, Newcastle University, UK
Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University, UK
Indoor Weather Stations: Investigating a Ludic Approach to Environmental HCI Through
Batch Prototyping  (page 3451)
William W. Gaver, Goldsmiths, University of London, UK
John Bowers, Goldsmiths, University of London, UK
Kirsten Boehner, Goldsmiths, University of London, UK
Andy Boucher, Goldsmiths, University of London, UK
David W T Cameron, Goldsmiths, University of London, UK
Mark Hauenstein, Goldsmiths, University of London, UK
Nadine Jarvis, Goldsmiths, University of London, UK
Sarah Pennington, Goldsmiths, University of London, UK

Session 208: Tensions in Social Media
Session Chair: Valentina Nisi, University of Madeira, Portugal

Reveal-it!: The Impact of a Social Visualization Projection on Public Awareness and
Discourse  (page 3461)
Nina Valkanova, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Spain
Sergi Jorda, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Spain
Martin Tomitsch, The University of Sydney, Australia
Andrew Vande Moere, University of Leuven, Belgium
Social Media and the Police - Tweeting Practices of British Police Forces During the August
2011 Riots  (page 3471)
Sebastian Denef, Fraunhofer Institute for Applied Information Technology, Germany
Petra S. Bayerl, Erasmus University Rotterdam, Netherlands
Nico A. Kaptein, COT Institute for Safety, Security and Crisis Management, Netherlands
  Whoo.ly: Facilitating Information Seeking for Hyperlocal Communities Using Social Media

(page 3481)
Yuheng Hu, Arizona State University, USA
Shelly D. Farnham, Microsoft Research, USA
Andrés Monroy-Hernández, Microsoft Research, USA

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

CHI 2013 Compilation (Proceedings and Extended Abstracts)

file:///E:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2013/CHI_2013/forms/organiza...

Main Page

Organizers, Chairs' Messages,
& Reviewers

Program

Proceedings: Paper Sessions

Extended Abstracts

Best of CHI

Compilation Author Index

Sponsors & Supporters

(Return to Top)

CHI 2013 Conference Organization

Technical Program

Communities

Operations

Conference Chair
Wendy Mackay, INRIA, France

Technical Program

Technical Program Chairs
Patrick Baudisch, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Michel Beaudouin-Lafon, Université Paris-Sud, France

Technical Program Chair Assistant
Dominik Schmidt, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany

Papers and Notes
Stephen Brewster, University of Glasgow, UK
Susanne Bødker, Aarhus University, Denmark

Panels
Jofish Kaye, Yahoo! Labs, USA
Gillian Hayes, University of California, Irvine, USA

Case Studies
Jonathan Arnowitz, Google, USA
Michael Arent, SAP, USA
Dirk-Jan Hoets, Flipside, The Netherlands

Courses
Gregorio Convertino, Xerox Research Centre Europe, France
Wiliam Hudson, Syntagm Ltd, UK

Interactivity
Floyd Muller, RMIT University, Australia
Steve Benford, University of Nottingham, UK
Danielle Wilde, RMIT University, Australia
Atau Tanaka, Goldsmiths College, UK

Video Showcase
Jeffrey Bardzell, Indiana University, Boomington, USA
Nicolas Roussel, INRIA, France

SIGs
Kaisa Väänänen-Vainio-Mattila, Tampere University of Technology, Finland
Albrecht Schmidt, University of Stuttgart, Germany

Doctoral Consortium
Marti Hearst, University of California, Berkeley, USA

1 of 4

4/18/2013 3:50 PM

CHI 2013 Compilation (Proceedings and Extended Abstracts)

file:///E:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2013/CHI_2013/forms/organiza...

(Return to Top)

Workshops
Ido Guy, IBM Research, Israel
Nadir Weibel, University of California, San Diego, USA

Works in Progress
Henriette Cramer, Yahoo! Labs, USA
Jakob Bardram, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Christian Holz, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany
Dan Vogel, University of Waterloo, Canada

Student Design Competition
Thecla Schiphorst, Simon Fraser University, Canada
Carola Zwick, Weissensee Art Academy Berlin, Germany

Student Research Competition
Shaowen Bardzell, Indiana University, Boomington, USA
Celine Latulipe, UNC Charlotte, USA

Student Game Competition
Seth Cooper, University of Washington, USA
Heather Desurvire, User Behavioristics Research, Inc., USA
Magy Seif El-Nasr, Northeastern University, USA
Katherine Isbister, NYU Poly, USA
Regina Bernhaupt, Université Paul Sabatier, France

alt.chi
Amanda Williams, Wyld Collective Ltd, Canada
Daniela Rosner, University of Washington, USA

TOCHI papers
Jeffrey Nichols, IBM Research, USA

Best of CHI Awards
Scott Hudson, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

RepliCHI
Max Wilson, University of Nottingham, UK

Industry days
Elizabeth Dykstra-Erickson, Nuance Communications, Inc., USA
Evan Gerber, Fidelity Investments, USA
Scott Weiss, Misys, UK
Jonathan Arnowitz, Google, USA

(Return to Top)

Communities

Communities Chairs
Bo Begole, Samsung Information Systems, USA
Kristina Höök, KTH, Sweden

Design Community
Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University, UK
Ellen Yi-Luen Do, Georgia Tech, USA

Engineering Community
Fabio Paterno, CNR-ISTI, Italy
Philippe Palanque, Université Paul Sabatier, France

(Return to Top)

Management Community
Janice Rohn, Experian, USA
Carola Fellenz Thompson, zSpace, USA

Child Computer Interaction Community

2 of 4

4/18/2013 3:50 PM

CHI 2013 Compilation (Proceedings and Extended Abstracts)

file:///E:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2013/CHI_2013/forms/organiza...

Janet Read, University of Central Lancashire, UK
Juan Pablo Hourcade, University of Iowa, USA

Sustainability Community
Lisa P. Nathan, University of British Columbia, Canada
Samuel Mann, Otago Polytechnic, New Zealand

Health Community
Karen Cheng, University of California, Irvine, USA
Kelly Caine, Clemson University, USA

Arts Community
David England, Liverpool John Moores University, UK
Jill fantauzzacoffin, Georgia Tech, USA

User Exp. & Usability Community
Virpi Roto, Aalto University, Finland
Arnold Lund, GE Global Research, USA

Entertainment and Games Community
Regina Bernhaupt, ruwido, Austria
Katherine Isbister, NYU Poly, USA

Operations

Student Volunteer Coordinators
Bobby Beaton, Virginia Tech, USA
Lindsay Reynolds, Cornell University, USA

Technology Liaison
Scooter Morris, University of California, San Francisco, USA

(Return to Top)

Technical Liaison
Sara Drenner, BI Worldwide

Data
Max von Kleek, MIT, USA

Graphic Design
Jeremy Boy, INRIA, France
Lora Oehlberg, INRIA, France
Dario Rodighiero, Sciences Po, France

Webmaster
Cary-Anne Olsen, University of Texas, Austin, USA
Caris Hurd, University of Texas, Austin, USA
Vicky McArthur, York University, Canada

Social Media
Cliff Lampe, University of Michigan, USA
Katie Panciera, Facebook, USA

Video previews
Gene Golovchinsky, FX Palo Alto Laboratory, Inc., USA
Gonzalo Ramos, Microsoft, USA

Proceedings
Michael Ekstrand, University of Minnesota, USA
Stéphane Conversy, ENAC, France

Proceedings
Robert J. Teather, York University, Canada

Mobile Apps

(Return to Top)

3 of 4

4/18/2013 3:50 PM

CHI 2013 Compilation (Proceedings and Extended Abstracts)

file:///E:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2013/CHI_2013/forms/organiza...

Stephen Oney, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Jason Wiese, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Eiji Hayashi, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

Interactive Schedule
Arvind Satyanarayan, Stanford University, USA
Daniel Strazzulla, INRIA, France
Clemens Klokmose, Aarhus University, Denmark

Community-sourcing and Scheduling
Steven Dow, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Paul André, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Lydia Chilton, University of Washington, USA
Juho Kim, MIT, USA
Rob Miller, MIT, USA
Haoqi Zhang, Northwestern & MIT, USA

Posters
James Eagan, Telecom ParisTech, France

Publicity
Molly Mackinlay, Stanford University, USA

PC Meeting Liaison
Eric Lecolinet, Telecom ParisTech, France

CHI Women's Breakfast
Allison Druin, University of Maryland, USA

Sponsors and Exhibits
Carol Klyver, Foundations of Excellence

Reviewing Software
James Stewart, Precision Conference, Canada

Conference Logistics
Janeé Pelletier, Conference & Logistics, USA
Allison Perrelli, Conference & Logistics, USA

Local Logistics
François Tapissier, Dakini, France

Registration
Yvonne Lopez, Executive Events, Inc., USA
Jill Skuba, Executive Events, Inc., USA

CMC Liaison
John "Scooter" Morris, University of California, San Francisco, USA

ACM Staff Liaison
Ashley Cozzi, ACM, USA

(Return to Top)

4 of 4

4/18/2013 3:50 PM

CHI 2013 Compilation Author Index

file:///E:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2013/CHI_2013/forms/sponsors.htm

CHI 2013 Sponsors, Supporters, Contributors, & Friends

CHI Hero & Champion Sponsors

Main Page

Organizers, Chairs' Messages,
& Reviewers

Program

Proceedings: Paper Sessions

Extended Abstracts

Best of CHI

Compilation Author Index

Sponsors & Supporters

(Return to Top)

(Return to Top)

CHI Contributing Sponsors

1 of 2

4/18/2013 3:49 PM

CHI 2013 Compilation Author Index

file:///E:/ACM-SIGCHI-Proceedings/CHI2013/CHI_2013/forms/sponsors.htm

Friends of CHI

(Return to Top)

IBM

GE

2 of 2

4/18/2013 3:49 PM

