April 18–23, 2015
Seoul, Republic of Korea

CHI 2015

Proceedings of the
33rd Annual CHI Conference
on Human Factors in Computing Systems

Sponsored by:
ACM SIGCHI
Supported by:
Samsung, Golfzon, Google, Microsoft, NAVER, SK Planet,
AutoDesk, Daumkakao, Disney Research, FuturePlay,
Hyundai Motor Group, Language Grid, LG, NSF,
Adobe Systems, H9Works, Yonsei University, KIPFA,
and Samsung Art & Design Institute

The Association for Computing Machinery
2 Penn Plaza, Suite 701
New York, New York 10121-0701

Copyright © 2015 by the Association for Computing Machinery, Inc. (ACM). Permission to make digital or
hard copies of portions of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies
are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full
citation on the first page.  Copyright for components of this work owned by others than ACM must be
honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted.  To copy otherwise, to republish, to post on servers or to
redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee.  Request permission to republish from:
permissions@acm.org or Fax +1 (212) 869-0481.

For other copying of articles that carry a code at the bottom of the first or last page, copying is permitted
provided that the per-copy fee indicated in the code is paid through www.copyright.com.

Notice to Past Authors of ACM-Published Articles
ACM intends to create a complete electronic archive of all articles and/or other material previously published
by ACM. If you have written a work that has been previously published by ACM in any journal or
conference proceedings prior to 1978, or any SIG Newsletter at any time, and you do NOT want this work to
appear in the ACM Digital Library, please inform permissions@acm.org, stating the title of the work, the
author(s), and where and when published.

ISBN:  978-1-4503-3145-6

Additional copies may be ordered prepaid from:

ACM Order Department
PO Box 30777
New York, NY  10087-0777, USA

Phone: 1-800-342-6626 (USA and Canada)
+1-212-626-0500 (Global)
Fax: +1-212-944-1318
E-mail: acmhelp@acm.org
Hours of Operation: 8:30 am – 4:30 pm ET

Printed in the USA

ii

From the General and Technical Program Chairs

Welcome to CHI 2015, the premier international forum for human-computer interaction (HCI). In its early
days, HCI focused on optimizing interactions between a user and a computer. Today, computers pervade
our world, impacting our lives in varied and subtle ways. By never focusing solely on technology itself but
always  on  innovations  and  their  effects  throughout  human  lives,  HCI  has  increasingly  come  to  mean
human-centered innovation.

The theme for the conference this year is CROSSINGS which represents our excitement about crossing into
Asia  and  also  reflects  CHI’s  core  principle  of  crossing  disciplines,  crossing  people  and  technology,
crossing research and business, crossing physical and digital, … crossing you and me.

This year’s conference brings CHI to Asia for the first time in its 33-year history, continuing the SIGCHI
commitment  to  making  CHI  a  truly  international  community.  The  city  of  Seoul  represents  one  of  many
innovation centers in Asia and provides a fantastic opportunity to showcase groundbreaking content from
across  the  region.  In  addition  to  an  exciting  technical  program,  we  are  holding  four  special  symposia
devoted  to  breakthrough  insights  and  innovations  from  the  Chinese,  Japanese  and  ASEAN  research
communities.

 The exciting keynote program features speakers who will bring fresh perspectives to CHI including Dean
Lou  Yongqi  of  Tongji  University,  China,  a  prominent  global  thinker  on  social  and  sustainable  design;
Executive  VP  Donghoon  Chang,  MFA,  head  of  Samsung  Electronic’s  design  strategy;  Senior  Research
Fellow  David  Min,  PhD,  head  of  the  Software  Center  at  LG  Electronics;  and  PSY,  the  media  record
breaker  and  innovator  discussing  creative  methods  and  the  impact  of  social  media  on  to  cross  cultural
boundaries.

CHI is honored this year to be the forum chosen by the recipient of one of ACM’s top awards, the Athena
Lecturer Award, Susan T. Dumais who developed novel algorithms and interfaces for interactive retrieval
that  have  made  it  easier for people  to find,  use  and  make  sense of  information.  She will  present  insights
from her experiences at a special keynote session at the conference.

CHI  2015  includes  two  days  of  focused  workshops  and  four  days  of  technical  content,  including  CHI's
prestigious technical program, with 16 parallel sessions of rigorously reviewed research Papers, engaging
Panels,  Case  Studies  and  Special  Interest  Groups  (SIGs),  an  extensive  Course  program  and  invited  talks
from  SIGCHI's  award  winners:  Leysia  Palen,  Jean  Scholtz,  Michel  Beaudouin-Lafon,  Jim  Hollan,  Susan
Dray and the new inductees to the CHI Academy.

We also host student research, design, and game competitions, and last-minute SIGs for discussing current
topics.  The  popular  alt.chi  forum  entered  its  tenth  year  of  provocation  to  the  HCI  community.
Interactivity’s  hands-on  demonstrations  showcase  the  best  of  interactive  technology  and  innovation.  The
program  also  highlights  more  than  200  Work-In-Progress  posters.  Evening  events  include  the  CHI  2015
conference  reception,  Sponsors  and  University  events,  local  performances  and  the  Job  Fair.  Across  all
tracks, CHI received over 2800 submissions and accepted nearly 1000 that will appear in the ACM Digital
Library.

We  are  deeply  indebted  to  an  enormous  number  of  volunteers,  without  whom  CHI  2015  would  not  be
possible, including over 3800 reviewers, over 200 senior members of the program committee, nearly 100
members  of  the  CHI  2015  conference  organization  committee  and,  of  course,  the  more  than  180  student
volunteers.  We  are  also  deeply  grateful  to  the  ongoing  support  of  the  Korean  HCI  society  who
demonstrated incredible hospitality by moving their own conference’s time and location to make room for

iii

CHI in Seoul and who provided tremendous resources from their membership to support CHI logistically
and in attracting novel content from around Asia.

We hope you will see fresh insights, strengthen connections and find new collaborators in Asia. Above all,
we hope you enjoy this unique experience of CHI 2015!

General Conference Chairs

Bo Begole
Huawei, USA

Jinwoo Kim
Yonsei University, Korea

Technical Program Chairs

Kori Inkpen
Microsoft Research, USA

Woontack Woo
KAIST, Korea

iv

From ACM SIGCHI’s President and Vice President
for Conferences

SIGCHI is proud to sponsor the premier annual conference in the field of human-computer interaction. We
are  extremely  grateful  to  the  CHI  2015  Conference  Chairs  Jinwoo  Kim  and  Bo  Begole,  to  Technical
Program Chairs Woontack Woo and Kori Inkpen, and to their wonderful crew, who succeeded to build an
impressive program and experience.

CHI 2015 is in Seoul, Korea, the first CHI ever in Asia. CHI started in Gaithersburg, MD, USA, in March
1982. That first conference in Gaithersburg drew over 900 attendees, and since then CHI, with the official
name: “ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems” moved to annual, originally moving
between  the  USA  and  Canada.  Starting  with  1993  CHI  traveled  between  locations  in  Europe  and  North
America.  This  year  is  another  big  step  forward,  made  possible  thanks  to  the  Korean  HCI  Society  that
helped  understand  and  navigate  the  local  context,  that  moved  its  annual  conference  3  months  earlier  to
December 2014, and at the same time supported CHI’s Technical Program meeting.

CHI  has  continued  to  grow  and  broaden  its  range  of  topics  and  contributing  disciplines:  the  founding
psychologists  and  software  engineers  began  to  meet  new  visions  from  ethnography,  sociology,
communication  sciences  and  arts,  among  others.  Relevant  industries,  as  well  as  research  institutes  and
academia, showed an increasing — and often long-lasting — interest and involvement (through volunteers
and through sponsorship for conference expenses). This year’s Conference Committee truly succeeded in
crossing borders of all kind, providing new and unique opportunities for all participants to meet something
entirely different.

CHI is an ideal forum for people to meet formally as well as informally, to exchange knowledge and views,
to  share  experiences,  and  to  learn.  The  CHI  conference  brings  together  professionals  from  research  and
practice;  people  from  industry,  academia,  and  from  government;  long-term  veterans  of  HCI,  young
professionals  and  students;  all  in  an  environment  designed  to  encourage  interaction.  We  invite  you  to
actively participate in that interaction: introduce yourself to people, interact with presenters and speakers,
renew old friendships and make new ones

CHI is organized on behalf of ACM's Special Interest Group on Computer-Human Interaction (SIGCHI),
an  international  community  of  professionals  who  share  an  interest  in  the  many  diverse  facets  of  HCI.
SIGCHI is committed both to advancing the field of HCI, to facilitate exchange of information within the
SIGCHI community, and to support students to enter the domain.

The  CHI  conference  is  arguably  the  single  most  visible  activity  of  SIGCHI,  but  we  also  sponsor  and
support a wide range of specialized conferences and workshops in areas ranging from interactive systems
design to user interface technology to computer-supported cooperative work to “intelligent” user interfaces.
Visit the SIGCHI website at http://www.sigchi.org  to find our conference schedule, listing upcoming as
well as past conferences.

SIGCHI  and  ACM  produce  some  of  the  most  respected  publications  in  the  field.  All  members  receive
interactions, a highly-acclaimed magazine covering the broad field of HCI and user interface design. ACM
Transactions on Computer-Human Interactions (ToCHI), now in its 21st year, is our flagship journal – a
quarterly  publication  with  the  top-quality  archival  research  aimed  at  researchers  and  those  translating
research into practice.

SIGCHI is truly an international organization, with around 40 local chapters and 3 student chapters in 25
countries on 6 continents. We encourage all SIGCHI members to join their local chapter — or if there isn't

v

one  in  your  area,  we  would  love  to  help  you  create  one.  And  don't  forget  virtual  communities!  SIGCHI
hosts  dozens  of  electronic  mailing  lists  on  topics  ranging  from  HCI  and  the  Web,  to  HCI  educations,  to
public policy and beyond. Those lists range from dozens of subscribers to thousands, and are an excellent
way to keep up with the field and with friends and colleagues.

Finally,  on  behalf  of  ACM  SGICHI,  we  again  want  to  thank  the  conference  committee  and  all  of  the
hundreds of volunteers who make this conference possible. Their work makes this a rewarding experience
for all of us.

Gerrit C. van der Veer
SIGCHI President

John “Scooter” Morris
SIGCHI Vice-President for
Conferences

About SIGCHI

CHI  2015  is  sponsored  by  ACM’s  Special  Interest  Group  on  Computer-Human  Interaction  (ACM
SIGCHI). ACM, the Association for Computing Machinery, is an educational and scientific society uniting
the  world’s  computing  educators,  researchers,  and  professionals  to  inspire  dialogue,  share  resources,  and
address  the  field’s  challenges.  ACM  strengthens  the  profession’s  collective  voice  through  strong
leadership, promotion of the highest standards, and recognition of technical excellence. ACM supports the
professional growth of its members by providing opportunities for life-long learning, career development,
and professional networking. ACM offers its more than 100,000 worldwide members cutting edge technical
information  through  world  class  journals  and  magazines,  dynamic  special  interest  groups,  and  globally
recognized conferences.

Visit www.acm.org for more information about the ACM.

SIGCHI is the premier international society for professionals, academics, and students who are interested in
human-computer interaction (HCI). We provide a forum for the discussion of all aspects of HCI through
our conferences, including our flagship CHI conference, publications, web sites, email discussion groups,
and  other  services.  We  advance  education  in  HCI  through  courses,  workshops,  and  outreach,  and  we
promote informal access to a wide range of individuals and organizations involved in HCI. Members can be
involved in HCI-related activities with others in their region through local SIGCHI chapters. Come to the
SIGCHI  Town  Hall  meeting  on  Wednesday,  April  22,  at  12:50  to  14:30  in  Room  308  or  visit
www.sigchi.org to learn more about SIGCHI.

Membership Information
Please contact ACM’s Member Services Dept.
Online: www.acm.org
Tel: +1-800-342-6626 (USA/Canada)
+1-212-626-0500 (International)
Fax: +1-212-944-1318
Email: acmhelp@acm.org

Write:
Association for Computing Machinery, Inc.
General Post Office
P.O. Box 30777
New York, NY 10087-0777, USA

vi

CHI 2015 Papers and Notes Chairs’ Welcome

The  CHI  Papers  and  Notes  programme  is  continuing  to  grow  and  this  year!  We  are  pleased  that  CHI
continues to be the leading conference for research in human-computer interaction.

This  year  we  considered  more  than  2120  submissions,  ~600  of  which  were  notes.  This  represents  a
continuation of ~4% annual growth in submissions. We accepted 486 submissions (~23%): 379 papers and
107 notes.

The  CHI  review  process  demands  a  tremendous  amount  of  work  from  all  areas  of  the  human-computer
interaction  community.  As  co-chairs  of  the  process,  we  are  amazed  at  the  ability  of  the  community  to
organize  itself  to  accomplish  this  task.  We  would  like  to  thank  the  2809  individual  reviewers  for  their
careful consideration of these papers. Every submission received at least three external reviews.

We also deeply appreciate the huge amount of time donated to this process by the 225-member program
committee, who paid their own way to attend the face-to-face program committee meeting, an event larger
than most ACM conferences.

We are proud of the work of the CHI 2015 program committee and hope that you enjoy these papers and
notes, which represent the best research in human-computer interaction.

CHI 2015 Paper and Notes Chairs

Andy Cockburn
University of Canterbury

Janna McGrenere
University of British Columbia

vii

Table of Contents

xl  Organizations

Non-Rigid Interaction Surfaces

1  bioLogic: Natto Cells as Nanoactuators for

Shape Changing Interfaces

Lining Yao, Jifei Ou, Chin-Yi Cheng,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Helene Steiner, Royal College of Art
Wen Wang, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology
Guanyun Wang, Zhejiang University
Hiroshi Ishii, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology

11  Control of Non-Solid Diffusers by Electrostatic

Charging

  Deepak Ranjan Sahoo, Diego Martinez Plasencia,

Sriram Subramanian, University of Bristol

15  Investigation of Material Properties for Thermal

Imaging-Based Interaction

  Yomna Abdelrahman, Alireza Sahami Shirazi,

Niels Henze, Albrecht Schmidt, University of Stuttgart

19  ShapeClip: Towards Rapid Prototyping with
Shape-Changing Displays for Designers

  John Hardy, Christian Weichel, Faisal Taher,

John Vidler, Jason Alexander, Lancaster University

29  FluxPaper: Reinventing Paper with Dynamic

Actuation Powered by Magnetic Flux

Masa Ogata, Keio University & Microsoft
Research
Masaaki Fukumoto, Microsoft Research

What do I hear? Communicating with Sound
Session Chair: Ian Oakley, Ulsan National Institute of Science
and Technology, Republic of Korea

39  TabLETS Get Physical: Non-Visual Text Entry

on Tablet Devices

  João Guerreiro, Instituto Superior Técnico, Universidade

de Lisboa & INESC-ID
André Rodrigues, Universidade de Lisboa
Kyle Montague, University of Dundee
Tiago Guerreiro, University of Lisbon
Hugo Nicolau, Rochester Institute of Technology
Daniel Gonçalves, Universidade de Lisboa &
INESC-ID

43  VocalSketch: Vocally Imitating Audio Concepts

Mark Cartwright, Bryan Pardo,
Northwestern University

47 An Evaluation of Multidimensional Controllers

for Sound Design Tasks
Robert Tubb, Simon Dixon, Queen Mary University
of London

57 AnnoTone: Record-time Audio Watermarking

for Context-aware Video Editing

Ryohei Suzuki, Daisuke Sakamoto,
Takeo Igarashi, The University of Tokyo

67 Exploring Gesture Sonification to Support

Reflective Craft Practice
Thomas Smith, Simon J. Bowen, Bettina Nissen,
Newcastle University
Jonathan Hook, University of York
Arno Verhoeven, University of Edinburgh
John Bowers, Peter Wright, Patrick Olivier,
Newcastle University

Rethinking Evaluation for Today’s HCI
Session Chair: Wendy Mackay, INRIA, France

77 Remote Paper Prototype Testing

Kevin Chen, Haoqi Zhang, Northwestern University

81 Controlling In-the-Wild Evaluation Studies of

Public Displays
Sandy Claes, Niels Wouters, Karin Slegers,
Andrew Vande Moere, KU Leuven

85 Evaluation Probes

Anna Luusua, Johanna Ylipulli, Marko Jurmu,
Henrika Pihlajaniemi, Piia Markkanen, Timo Ojala,
University of Oulu

95 Real-World Affinity Diagramming Practices:

Bridging the Paper–Digital Gap
Gunnar Harboe, Elaine M. Huang, University of Zurich

105 Situational Ethics: Re-thinking Approaches to
Formal Ethics Requirements for Human-
Computer Interaction

Cosmin Munteanu, University of Toronto
Mississauga & University of Toronto
Heather Molyneaux, National Research
Council Canada & University of New
Brunswick
Wendy Moncur, University of Dundee
Mario Romero, Kungliga Tekniska
högskolan
Susan O’Donnell, National Research
Council Canada & University of New
Brunswick
John Vines, Newcastle University

ix

Improving Game Experiences
Session Chair: Lennart Nacke, University of Ontario Institute of
Technology, Canada

115  The Royal Corgi: Exploring Social Gaze
Interaction for Immersive Gameplay

  Mélodie Vidal, Lancaster University

Rémi Bismuth, ISART Digital
Andreas Bulling, Max Planck Institute for Informatics
Hans Gellersen, Lancaster University

125  Exploring 3D User Interface Technologies for

Improving the Gaming Experience
Arun Kulshreshth, Joseph J. LaViola Jr., University of
Central Florida

135  Quantifying and Mitigating the Negative Effects
of Local Latencies on Aiming in 3D Shooter
Games
Zenja Ivkovic, Ian Stavness, Carl Gutwin,
Steve Sutcliffe, University of Saskatchewan

145  First Person vs. Third Person Perspective in
Digital Games: Do Player Preferences Affect
Immersion?
Alena Denisova, Paul Cairns, University of York

149  VIZMO Game Browser: Accessing Video Games

by Visual Style and Mood
Jin Ha Lee, Sungsoo (Ray) Hong, Hyerim Cho,
Yea-Seul Kim, University of Washington

Facebook Newsfeeds & Friendships
Session Chair: David Shamma, Yahoo!, USA

153  “I always assumed that I wasn’t really that close
to [her]”: Reasoning about Invisible Algorithms
in News Feeds

Motahhare Eslami, University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign
Aimee Rickman, California State
University, Fresno
Kristen Vaccaro, University of Illinois
Amirhossein Aleyasen, Andy Vuong,
Karrie Karahalios, University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign
Kevin Hamilton, University of Illinois
Christian Sandvig, University of Michigan

163  News Feed: What’s in it for Me?

Paul Lapides, Apoorve Chokshi, Sheelagh Carpendale,
Saul Greenberg, University of Calgary

173  Understanding User Beliefs about Algorithmic

Curation in the Facebook News Feed
Emilee Rader, Rebecca Gray, Michigan State University

Activism in Wikipedia & Beyond
Session Chair: Gary Hsieh, University of Washington, USA

183  Cross-language Wikipedia Editing of Okinawa,

Japan

  Scott A. Hale, University of Oxford

193 Societal Controversies in Wikipedia Articles

Erik Borra, Esther Weltevrede, University of Amsterdam
Paolo Ciuccarelli, Politecnico di Milano
Andreas Kaltenbrunner, David Laniado, Barcelona
Media
Giovanni Magni, Michele Mauri, Politecnico di Milano
Richard Rogers, University of Amsterdam
Tommaso Venturini, Sciences Politiques

197 Barriers to the Localness of Volunteered

Geographic Information

Shilad W. Sen, Macalester College
Heather Ford, Oxford University
David R. Musicant, Carleton College
Mark Graham, Oxford University
Os Keyes, Wikimedia Foundation
Brent Hecht, University of Minnesota

207 The Heart Work of Wikipedia: Gendered,

Emotional Labor in the World’s Largest Online
Encyclopedia

Amanda Menking, University of
Washington
Ingrid Erickson, Rutgers University

211 How Activists Are Both Born and Made:
An Analysis of Users on Change.org
Shih-Wen Huang, Minhyang (Mia) Suh,
Benjamin Mako Hill, Gary Hsieh, University of
Washington

HMDs & Wearables to Overcome Disabilities
Session Chair: Shaun Kane, University of Colorado Boulder, USA

221 Personalized, Wearable Control of a Head-

mounted Display for Users with Upper Body
Motor Impairments
Meethu Malu, Leah Findlater, University of Maryland,
College Park

231 Designing Conversation Cues on a Head-
Mounted Display to Support Persons with
Aphasia
Kristin Williams, University of Maryland, College Park
Karyn Moffatt, McGill University
Denise McCall, Snyder Center for Aphasia Life
Enhancement
Leah Findlater, University of Maryland, College Park

241 Head-Mounted Display Visualizations to

Support Sound Awareness for the Deaf and
Hard of Hearing
Dhruv Jain, Massachusetts Institute of Technology &
University of Maryland, College Park
Leah Findlater, University of Maryland, College Park
Jamie Gilkeson, Benjamin Holland, Montgomery Blair
High School
Ramani Duraiswami, Dmitry Zotkin, University of
Maryland, College Park
Christian Vogler, Gallaudet University
Jon E. Froehlich, University of Maryland, College Park

x

251  Using Interactive Machine Learning to Support

Interface Development Through Workshops
with Disabled People

  Simon Katan, Mick Grierson, Rebecca Fiebrink,

Goldsmiths, University of London

255  Tongue-in-Cheek: Using Wireless Signals to
Enable Non-Intrusive and Flexible Facial
Gestures Detection

Mayank Goel, Chen Zhao, Ruth Vinisha,
Shwetak N. Patel, University of Washington

Visualizing Data
Session Chair: Christophe Hurter, IRIT, France

259  MatrixWave: Visual Comparison of Event

Sequence Data

Jian Zhao, University of Toronto
Zhicheng Liu, Mira Dontcheva,
Aaron Hertzmann, Alan Wilson, Adobe
Research

269  The Effects of Representation and Juxtaposition

on Graphical Perception of Matrix Visualization
  Xiaotong Liu, Han-Wei Shen, The Ohio State University

279  g-Miner: Interactive Visual Group Mining on

Multivariate Graphs

  Nan Cao, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center

Yu-Ru Lin, University of Pittsburgh
Liangyue Li, Hanghang Tong, Arizona State University

289  Trajectory Bundling for Animated Transitions

  Fan Du, University of Maryland

Nan Cao, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center
Jian Zhao, University of Toronto
Yu-Ru Lin, University of Pittsburgh

317 THING: Introducing a Tablet-based Interaction
Technique for Controlling 3D Hand Models
Merwan Achibet, Inria Rennes
Géry Casiez, University of Lille
Anatole Lécuyer, Inria Rennes
Maud Marchal, Inria Rennes & INSA

327 The Roly-Poly Mouse: Designing a Rolling Input

Device Unifying 2D and 3D Interaction
Gary Perelman, Marcos Serrano, Mathieu Raynal,
University of Toulouse, IRIT
Celia Picard, Mustapha Derras, LRA, Berger-Levrault
Emmanuel Dubois, University of Toulouse, IRIT

Understanding & Evaluating Performance
Session Chair: Richard Davis, Singapore Management University,
Singapore

337 ModelTracker: Redesigning Performance
Analysis Tools for Machine Learning
Saleema Amershi, Max Chickering, Steven M. Drucker,
Bongshin Lee, Patrice Simard, Jina Suh, Microsoft
Research

347 How Good is 85%? A Survey Tool to Connect
Classifier Evaluation to Acceptability of
Accuracy
Matthew Kay, Shwetak N. Patel, Julie A. Kientz,
University of Washington

357 Examining the Peak-End Effects of Subjective

Experience
Andy Cockburn, Philip Quinn, University of Canterbury
Carl Gutwin, University of Saskatchewan

367 Survival Analysis: Objective assessment of Wait

Time in HCI
Siddhartha Asthana, Pushpendra Singh, Parul Gupta,
Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology

Interaction in 3D Space
Session Chair: Kening Zhu, City University of Hong Kong, China

Music & Art
Session Chair: Jonathan Hook, University of York, UK

377 Deformable Interfaces for Performing Music

Giovanni Maria Troiano, Esben Warming Pedersen,
Kasper Hornbæk, University of Copenhagen

387 Sculpting a Mobile Musical Soundtrack

Adrian Hazzard, Steve Benford, Gary Burnett,
The University of Nottingham

397 Walking by Drawing

Daniela K. Rosner, Hidekazu Saegusa,
Jeremy Friedland, Allison Chambliss, University of
Washington

299  Physical Loci: Leveraging Spatial, Object and
Semantic Memory for Command Selection

  Simon T. Perrault, National University of Singapore and

Télécom ParisTech
Eric Lecolinet, Yoann Pascal Bourse, Télécom ParisTech
Shengdong Zhao, National University of Singapore
Yves Guiard, Télécom ParisTech

309  LeviPath: Modular Acoustic Levitation for 3D

Path Visualisations

Themis Omirou, University of Bristol
Asier Marzo, University of Bristol &
Public University of Navarre
Sue Ann Seah, Sriram Subramanian,
University of Bristol

313  Twist and Learn: Interface Learning in 3DOF

Exploration of 3D Scatterplots

  Mark Shovman, Yahoo! Labs

James Bown, Andrea Szymkowiak,
Kenneth C. Scott-Brown, Abertay University

xi

407  ArtMaps: Interpreting the Spatial Footprints of

487 Sensors Know When to Interrupt You in the Car:

Artworks

Tim Coughlan, Laura Carletti, University
of Nottingham
Gabriella Giannachi, University of Exeter
Steve Benford, Derek McAuley,
Dominic Price, University of Nottingham
Cristina Locatelli, The University of Exeter
& Tate
Rebecca Sinker, John Stack, Tate

Supporting Change in Developing Countries
Session Chair: Anirudha Joshi, Indian Institute of Technology,
Bombay, India

417  Sangeet Swara: A Community-Moderated Voice

Forum in Rural India

Aditya Vashistha, University of Washington
Edward Cutrell, Microsoft Research India
Gaetano Borriello, University of Washington
William Thies, Microsoft Research India

427  Mobile Phones for Maternal Health in Rural India

  Neha Kumar, Richard Anderson, University of

Washington

437  Residual Mobilities: Infrastructural

Displacement and Post-Colonial Computing
in Bangladesh

  Syed Ishtiaque Ahmed, Cornell University

Nusrat Jahan Mim, Bangladesh University of
Engineering and Technology
Steven J. Jackson, Cornell University

447  Más Tecnología, Más Cambio? Investigating an

Educational Technology Project in Rural Peru

  Emeline Therias, Spotless Interactive
Jon Bird, City University, London
Paul Marshall, University College London

Privacy, Security & Interruptions
Session Chair: Emilee Rader, Michigan State University, USA

457  Playing the Legal Card: Using Ideation Cards to
Raise Data Protection Issues within the Design
Process

  Ewa Luger, Microsoft Research

Lachlan Urquhart, Tom Rodden,
Michael Golembewski, The University of Nottingham

467  Crowdsourced Exploration of Security

Configurations

  Qatrunnada Ismail, Tousif Ahmed, Apu Kapadia,

Indiana University Bloomington
Michael K. Reiter, University of North Carolina,
Chapel Hill

477  Open Book: A Socially-inspired Cloaking

Technique that Uses Lexical Abstraction to
Transform Messages

Eric Gilbert, Georgia Institute of
Technology

Detecting Driver Interruptibility Through
Monitoring of Peripheral Interactions
SeungJun Kim, Jaemin Chun, Anind K. Dey,
Carnegie Mellon University

Making & Sharing Assistive Technologies
Session Chair: Suranga Nanayakkara, Singapore University of
Technology and Design, Singapore

497 LApp: A Speech Loudness Application for

People with Parkinson’s on Google Glass

Róisín McNaney, Ivan Poliakov,
John Vines, Madeline Balaam,
Pengfei Zhang, Patrick Olivier,
Newcastle University

501 Designing for and with People with Parkinson’s:

A Focus on Exergaming
Róisín McNaney, Madeline Balaam, Amey Holden,
Guy Schofield, Dan Jackson, Mary Webster,
Brook Galna, Gillian Barry, Lynn Rochester,
Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University

511 Being Seen: Co-Interpreting Parkinson’s
Patient’s Movement Ability in Deep Brain
Stimulation Programming
Helena M. Mentis, Rita Shewbridge, Sharon Powell, Paul
Fishman, Lisa Shulman, University of Maryland School
of Medicine

521 The Virtual Meditative Walk: Virtual Reality
Therapy for Chronic Pain Management
Diane Gromala, Xin Tong, Amber Choo,
Mehdi Karamnejad, Chris D. Shaw, Simon Fraser
University

525 Sharing is Caring: Assistive Technology

Designs on Thingiverse

Erin Buehler, Stacy Branham, Abdullah Ali,
Jeremy J. Chang, University of Maryland,
Baltimore County
Megan Kelly Hofmann, Colorado State
University
Amy Hurst, University of Maryland,
Baltimore County
Shaun K. Kane, University of Colorado
Boulder

Matching & Facilitating Social Interactions
Session Chair: Jofish Kaye, Yahoo!, USA

535 Understanding the Role of Community in Online

Dating
Christina Masden, W. Keith Edwards, Georgia Institute
of Technology

545 Making Social Matching Context-Aware —

Design Concepts and Open Challenges
Julia M. Mayer, Starr Roxanne Hiltz, Quentin Jones,
New Jersey Institute of Technology

xii

639 Patterns of Physical Design Remixing in Online

Maker Communities
Lora Oehlberg, INRIA
Wesley Willett, INRIA & University of Calgary
Wendy E. Mackay, INRIA

How Fast Can You Type on Your Phone?
Session Chair: Michael Rohs, University of Hannover, Germany

649 Effects of Language Modeling and its

Personalization on Touchscreen Typing
Performance

Andrew Fowler, Oregon Health & Science
University
Kurt Partridge, Ciprian Chelba, Xiaojun Bi,
Tom Ouyang, Shumin Zhai, Google, Inc.

659 VelociTap: Investigating Fast Mobile Text Entry

using Sentence-Based Decoding of
Touchscreen Keyboard Input

Keith Vertanen, Haythem Memmi,
Justin Emge, Montana Tech
Shyam Reyal, University of St Andrews
Per Ola Kristensson, University of
St Andrews & University of Cambridge

669 Text Entry on Tiny QWERTY Soft Keyboards

Luis A. Leiva, Universitat Politècnica de València
Alireza Sahami, University of Stuttgart
Alejandro Catalá, Universitat Politècnica de València
Niels Henze, Albrecht Schmidt, University of Stuttgart

679 Performance and User Experience of

Touchscreen and Gesture Keyboards in a Lab
Setting and in the Wild
Shyam Reyal, University of St Andrews
Shumin Zhai, Research @ Google Inc.
Per Ola Kristensson, University of St Andrews &
University of Cambridge

Understand & Enhancing Learning
Session Chair: Chris Quintana, University of Michigan, USA

689 Using Time-Anchored Peer Comments to
Enhance Social Interaction in Online
Educational Videos
Yi-Chieh Lee, Wen-Chieh Lin, Fu-Yin Cherng,
National Chiao Tung University
Hao-Chuan Wang, National Tsing Hua University
Ching-Ying Sung, Jung-Tai King, National Chiao Tung
University

699 Designing a Physical Aid to Support Active

Reading on Tablets
Andrea Bianchi, So-Ryang Ban, Sungkyunkwan
University
Ian Oakley, Ulsan National Institute of Science and
Technology

555  The Known Stranger: Supporting Conversations
between Strangers with Personalized Topic
Suggestions

  Tien T. Nguyen, University of Minnesota

Duyen T. Nguyen, Carnegie Mellon University
Shamsi T. Iqbal, Eyal Ofek, Microsoft Research

565  Augmenting Social Interactions: Realtime
Behavioural Feedback using Social Signal
Processing Techniques

  Ionut Damian, Augsburg University

Chiew Seng (Sean) Tan, Hasselt University - tUL –
iMinds
Tobias Baur, Augsburg University
Johannes Schöning, Kris Luyten, Hasselt University -
tUL – iMinds
Elisabeth André, Augsburg University

Reflecting Upon Design Reflection
Session Chair: Ron Wakkary, Simon Fraser University, Canada

575  Understanding Long-Term Interactions with a

Slow Technology: An Investigation of
Experiences with FutureMe

  William Odom, Simon Fraser University

585  Reflective Informatics: Conceptual Dimensions
for Designing Technologies of Reflection

  Eric P. S. Baumer, Cornell University

595  Stock Lamp: An Engagement-Versatile

Visualization Design

Yuzuru Tanahashi, Kwan-Liu Ma,
University of California, Davis

605  Real-Time Representation Versus Response

Elicitation in Biosensor Data

  Mark Matthews, Jaime Snyder, Lindsay Reynolds,
Jacqueline T. Chien, Adam Shih, Jonathan W. Lee,
Geri Gay, Cornell University

Makers & Hackers
Session Chair: Ellen Yi-Luen Do, Georgia Institute of Technology,
USA

609  Tutorial Authorship and Hybrid Designers:

The Joy (and Frustration) of DIY Tutorials

  Ron Wakkary, Simon Fraser University & Eindhoven

University of Technology
Markus Lorenz Schilling, Matthew A. Dalton,
Sabrina Hauser, Audrey Desjardins, Xiao Zhang,
Henry W. J. Lin, Simon Fraser University

619  Hybrid Practice in the Kalahari: Design

Collaboration through Digital Tools and Hunter-
Gatherer Craft

  Jennifer Jacobs, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Amit Zoran, MIT Media Lab & Hebrew University

629  The Proper Care and Feeding of Hackerspaces:

Care Ethics and Cultures of Making

Austin L. Toombs, Shaowen Bardzell,
Jeffrey Bardzell, Indiana University
Bloomington

xiii

Family Communication
Session Chair: Siân Lindley, Microsoft Research, UK

Managing Personal Privacy
Session Chair: Sameer Patil, Yahoo Labs, USA

709  Couples’ Communication Channels: What,

When & Why?

  Henriette Cramer, Yahoo Labs

Maia L. Jacobs, Georgia Institute of Technology

713  The Messaging Kettle: Prototyping Connection

over a Distance between Adult Children and
Older Parents

  Margot Brereton, Alessandro Soro, Kate Vaisutis,
Paul Roe, Queensland University of Technology

717  The Effect of Signal Expense and Dependability

on Family Communication in Rural and
Northern Canada

  Roberta M. Melvin, Andrea Bunt, University of

Manitoba
Erick Oduor, Carman Neustaedter, Simon Fraser
University

727  Texting while Parenting: How Adults Use Mobile

Phones while Caring for Children at the
Playground

  Alexis Hiniker, Kiley Sobel, Hyewon Suh,

Yi-Chen Sung, Charlotte P. Lee, Julie A. Kientz,
University of Washington

737  Exploring Time-Dependent Concerns about
Pregnancy and Childbirth from Search Logs

Adam Fourney, University of Waterloo &
Microsoft Research
Ryen W. White, Eric Horvitz, Microsoft
Research

Crowdsourcing Fans & Friends
Session Chair: Shaun Lawson, University of Lincoln, UK

747  Run Spot Run: Capturing and Tagging Footage

of a Race by Crowds of Spectators

  Martin D. Flintham, Raphael Velt, Max L. Wilson,

Edward J. Anstead, Steve Benford, Anthony Brown,
Timothy Pearce, Dominic Price, James Sprinks,
The University of Nottingham

757  Crowdsourcing Synchronous Spectator

Support: (go on, go on, you’re the best)n-1
  Franco Curmi, Maria Angela Ferrario, Jon Whittle,

Lancaster University
Florian ‘Floyd’ Mueller, RMIT University

767  Bootlegger: Turning Fans into Film Crew

  Guy Schofield, Tom Bartindale, Peter Wright,

Newcastle University

777  In-group Questions and Out-group Answers:
Crowdsourcing Daily Living Advice for
Individuals with Autism

  Hwajung Hong, Eric Gilbert, Gregory D. Abowd,
Rosa I. Arriaga, Georgia Institute of Technology

787 Your Location has been Shared 5,398 Times! A
Field Study on Mobile App Privacy Nudging
Hazim Almuhimedi, Florian Schaub, Norman Sadeh,
Carnegie Mellon University
Idris Adjerid, University of Notre Dame
Alessandro Acquisti, Joshua Gluck,
Lorrie Faith Cranor, Yuvraj Agarwal, Carnegie Mellon
University

797 Can an Algorithm Know the “Real You”?

Understanding People’s Reactions to Hyper-
personal Analytics Systems
Jeffrey Warshaw, University of California, Santa Cruz
Tara Matthews, IBM Research – Almaden
Steve Whittaker, University of California, Santa Cruz
Chris Kau, IBM Research – Almaden
Mateo Bengualid, IBM Argentina
Barton A. Smith, IBM Research - Almaden

807 Privacy Tipping Points in Smartphones Privacy

Preferences
Fuming Shih, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Ilaria Liccardi, Massachusetts Institute of Technology &
University of Oxford (UK)
Daniel Weitzner, Massachusetts Institute of Technology

817 VeilMe: An Interactive Visualization Tool for
Privacy Configuration of Using Personality
Traits
Yang Wang, University of California, Davis
Liang Gou, Anbang Xu, IBM Research – Almaden
Michelle X. Zhou, Huahai Yang, Juji Inc.
Hernan Badenes, IBM Argentina

Health Sensors & Monitoring
Session Chair: Regan Mandryk, University of Saskatchewan,
Canada

827 No News is Good News: Remote Monitoring of
Implantable Cardioverter-Defibrillator Patients
Mikael B. Skov, Aalborg University
Pauline G. Johansen, Charlotte S. Skov, Astrid Lauberg,
Aalborg University Hospital

837 Smart Homes that Monitor Breathing and Heart

Rate

Fadel Adib, Hongzi Mao, Zachary Kabelac,
Dina Katabi, Robert C. Miller,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology

847 Balancing Accuracy and Fun: Designing

Camera Based Mobile Games for Implicit Heart
Rate Monitoring
Teng Han, Xiang Xiao, Lanfei Shi, University of
Pittsburgh
John Canny, University of California, Berkeley
Jingtao Wang, University of Pittsburgh

xiv

857  Measuring Photoplethysmogram-Based Stress-

929 Advancing Muscle-Computer Interfaces with High-

Density Electromyography
Christoph Amma, Thomas Krings, Jonas Böer,
Tanja Schultz, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology

939 Proprioceptive Interaction

Pedro Lopes, Alexandra Ion, Willi Mueller,
Daniel Hoffmann, Patrik Jonell, Patrick Baudisch,
Hasso Plattner Institute

Phones for more than Just Talking & Text
Session Chair: Naomi Yamashita, NTT Communication Science
Laboratories, Japan

949 AudioScope: Smartphones as Directional

Microphones in Mobile Audio Augmented Reality
Systems
Florian Heller, Jan Borchers, RWTH Aachen University

953 ScanShot: Detecting Document Capture

Moments and Correcting Device Orientation
Jeungmin Oh, Woohyeok Choi, Joohyun Kim,
Uichin Lee, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and
Technology

957 Mechanics of Camera Work in Mobile Video

Collaboration
Brennan Jones, Anna Witcraft, University of Calgary
Scott Bateman, University of Prince Edward Island
Carman Neustaedter, Simon Fraser University
Anthony Tang, University of Calgary

967 Reducing the Stress of Coordination: Sharing
Travel Time Information Between Contacts on
Mobile Phones

Frank R. Bentley, Ying-Yu Chen,
Christian Holz, Yahoo Labs

971 You Can’t Smoke Here: Towards Support for
Space Usage Rules in Location-aware
Technologies
Pavel Andreevich Samsonov, Hasselt University - tUL –
iMinds
Xun Tang, University of Minnesota
Johannes Schöning, Hasselt University - tUL – iMinds
Werner Kuhn, University of California at Santa Barbara
Brent Hecht, University of Minnesota

Search & Recommendations
Session Chair: Susan Dumais, Microsoft Research, USA

975 Blended Recommending: Integrating Interactive

Information Filtering and Algorithmic
Recommender Techniques
Benedikt Loepp, Katja Herrmanny, Jürgen Ziegler,
University of Duisburg-Essen

Induced Vascular Response Index to Assess
Cognitive Load and Stress

Yongqiang Lyu, Tsinghua University
Xiaomin Luo, BGI (Wuhan) Translational
Research Center
Jun Zhou, Chun Yu, Congcong Miao,
Tong Wang, Yuanchun Shi, Tsinghua
University
Ken-ichi Kameyama, Toshiba Corporation

Collaborative Tables, Walls & Rooms
Session Chair: Harald Reiterer, University of Konstanz, Germany

867  Fluid Grouping: Quantifying Group Engagement

around Interactive Tabletop Exhibits in the Wild

Florian Block, Harvard University
James Hammerman, TERC
Michael Horn, Northwestern University
Amy Spiegel, University of Nebraska,
Lincoln
Jonathan Christiansen, TERC
Brenda Phillips, Harvard University
Judy Diamond, University of Nebraska State
Museum
E. Margaret Evans, University of Michigan
Chia Shen, Harvard University

877  Flexible Ecologies and Incongruent Locations

Paul K. Luff, King’s College, London
Naomi Yamashita, NTT Communication
Science Laboratories
Hideaki Kuzuoka, University of Tsukuba
Christian Heath, King’s College, London

887  Mapping out Work in a Mixed Reality Project

Room

  Derek Reilly, Dalhousie University

Andy Echenique, University of California, Irvine
Andy Wu, General Electric
Anthony Tang, University of Calgary
W. Keith Edwards, Georgia Institute of Technology

The Value of Things
Session Chair: Mark Blythe, Northumbria University, UK

897  On Vintage Values: The Experience of

Secondhand Fashion Reacquisition

  Anne E. Bowser, University of Maryland, College Park
Oliver L. Haimson, University of California, Irvine
Edward F. Melcer, New York University
Elizabeth F. Churchill, eBay Research Lab, eBay Inc.

907  Your Money’s No Good Here: The Elimination of

Cash Payment on London Buses

Gary Pritchard, John Vines, Patrick Olivier,
Newcastle University

917  Informing and Improving Retirement Saving

Performance Using Behavioral Economics
Theory-driven User Interfaces

  Junius Gunaratne, Oded Nov, New York University

xv

985  A Large-Scale Study of User Image Search

1065 Mobile Gamification for Crowdsourcing Data

Behavior on the Web

  Jaimie Y. Park, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and

Technology
Neil O’Hare, Yahoo Labs
Rossano Schifanella, University of Torino
Alejandro Jaimes, Yahoo Labs
Chin-Wan Chung, Korea Advanced Institute of Science
and Technology

995  DynamicMaps: Similarity-based Browsing

through a Massive Set of Images

  Yanir Kleiman, TelAviv University
Joel Lanir, University of Haifa
Dov Danon, TelAviv University
Yasmin Felberbaum, University of Haifa
Daniel Cohen-Or, TelAviv University

1005  S.O.S.: Does Your Search Engine Results Page

(SERP) Need Help?

Maximilian Speicher, Technische
Universität Chemnitz
Andreas Both, Unister GmbH
Martin Gaedke, Technische Universität
Chemnitz

Collection: Leveraging the Freemium Model
Kristen Dergousoff, Regan L. Mandryk, University
of Saskatchewan

1075 Unequal Time for Unequal Value: Implications

of Differing Motivations for Participation in
Timebanking

Patrick C. Shih, The Pennsylvania State
University
Victoria Bellotti, Palo Alto Research
Center (PARC) & University of California,
Santa Cruz
Kyungsik Han, John M. Carroll,
The Pennsylvania State University

1085 A Muddle of Models of Motivation for Using

Peer-to-Peer Economy Systems

Victoria Bellotti, Alexander Ambard,
Palo Alto Research Center & University of
California, Santa Cruz
Daniel Turner, Christina Gossmann,
Kamila Demková, Palo Alto Research
Center
John M. Carroll, The Pennsylvania State
University

Kids Haptic, Wearable, Tangible Learning
Session Chair: Shuli Gilutz, Interdisciplinary Center (IDC)
Herzliya, Israel

Sustainability & Recycling
Session Chair: Adrian Clear, Lancaster University, UK

1015  FeelSleeve: Haptic Feedback to Enhance Early

1095 Analysis of Recycling Capabilities of Individuals

and Crowds to Encourage and Educate People to
Separate Their Garbage Playfully

Pascal Lessel, Maximilian Altmeyer,
Antonio Krüger, DFKI GmbH

1105 Why and what did we throw out? Probing on

Reflection through the Food Waste Diary
Eva Ganglbauer, Geraldine Fitzpatrick,
Florian Güldenpfennig, Vienna University of Technology

1115 Energy Babble: Mixing Environmentally-Oriented

Internet Content to Engage Community Groups

William Gaver, Goldsmiths, University
of London
Mike Michael, University of Sydney
Tobie Kerridge, Alex Wilkie,
Andy Boucher, Liliana Ovalle,
Matthew Plummer-Fernandez, Goldsmiths,
University of London

1125 Beyond the Individual: The Contextual Wheel of

Practice as a Research Framework for
Sustainable HCI
Johanne Mose Entwistle, Mia Kruse Rasmussen,
Alexandra Institute
Nervo Verdezoto, Robert S. Brewer, Aarhus University
Mads Schaarup Andersen, The Open University

Reading

  Nesra Yannier, Disney Research Pittsburgh &

Carnegie Mellon University
Ali Israr, Jill Fain Lehman, Disney Research Pittsburgh
Roberta L. Klatzky, Carnegie Mellon University

1025  BodyVis: A New Approach to Body Learning
Through Wearable Sensing and Visualization

Leyla Norooz, Matthew Louis Mauriello,
Anita Jorgensen, Brenna McNally,
Jon E. Froehlich, University of Maryland,
College Park

1035  Exploring Expressive Augmented Reality:

The FingAR Puppet System for Social Pretend
Play

  Zhen Bai, Alan F. Blackwell, George Coulouris,

University of Cambridge

1045  Learning from Mixed-Reality Games: Is Shaking

a Tablet as Effective as Physical Observation?
Nesra Yannier, Kenneth R. Koedinger,
Scott E. Hudson, Carnegie Mellon
University

Motivation & Participation
Session Chair: Meredith Morris, Microsoft Research, USA

1055  Gauging Receptiveness to Social

Microvolunteering

Erin Brady, University of Rochester
Meredith Ringel Morris, Microsoft Research
Jeffrey P. Bigham, Carnegie Mellon
University

xvi

The Value of the Village in Caregiving
Session Chair: Lena Mamykina, Columbia University, USA

1135  Effects of Public Commitments and

Accountability in a Technology-Supported
Physical Activity Intervention

  Sean A. Munson, University of Washington

Erin Krupka, Caroline Richardson, Paul Resnick,
University of Michigan

1145  Rare World: Towards Technology for Rare

Diseases

Haley MacLeod, Kim Oakes,
Danika Geisler, Indiana University
Kay Connelly, Indiana University,
Bloomington
Katie Siek, Indiana University

1155  Looking for Respite and Support: Technological

Opportunities for Spousal Caregivers

  Matthieu Tixier, Myriam Lewkowicz, Troyes University of

Technology

1159  Barriers and Negative Nudges: Exploring

Challenges in Food Journaling

Felicia Cordeiro, Daniel A. Epstein,
University of Washington
Edison Thomaz, Georgia Institute of
Technology
Elizabeth Bales, University of Washington
Arvind K. Jagannathan, Gregory D. Abowd,
Georgia Institute of Technology
James Fogarty, University of Washington

I Like What I See - Interface Aesthetics
Session Chair: Simon Bowen, Newcastle University, UK

1163  Computation of Interface Aesthetics

Aliaksei Miniukovich, Antonella De Angeli,
University of Trento

1173  Patina Engraver: Visualizing Activity Logs as

Patina in Fashionable Trackers

Moon-Hwan Lee, Seijin Cha, Tek-Jin Nam,
Korea Advanced Institute of Science and
Technology

1183  Real-time Guidance Camera Interface to Enhance

Photo Aesthetic Quality

  Yan Xu, Joshua Ratcliff, Intel Labs
James Scovell, Intel Corporation
Gheric Speiginer, Georgia Institute of Technology
Ronald Azuma, Intel Labs

1187  Infographic Aesthetics: Designing for the

First Impression

  Lane Harrison, Tufts University

Katharina Reinecke, University of Michigan
Remco Chang, Tufts University

1191 ISOTYPE Visualization – Working Memory,

Performance, and Engagement with Pictographs
Steve Haroz, Northwestern University
Robert Kosara, Tableau Software
Steven L. Franconeri, Northwestern University

Supporting Creativity through UX Design
Session Chair: Luciano Gamberini, University of Padova, Italy

1201 GEM-NI: A System for Creating and Managing

Alternatives in Generative Design
Loutfouz Zaman, York University
Wolfgang Stuerzlinger, Simon Fraser University
Christian Neugebauer, University of Applied Sciences
Bonn-Rhein-Sieg
Robert Woodbury, Maher Elkhaldi, Naghmi Shireen,
Simon Fraser Univeristy
Michael Terry, University of Waterloo

1211 Motif: Supporting Novice Creativity through

Expert Patterns

Joy Kim, Stanford University
Mira Dontcheva, Adobe Research
Wilmot Li, Adobe Systems
Michael S. Bernstein, Stanford University
Daniela Steinsapir, Adobe Research

1221 DesignScape: Design with Interactive Layout

Suggestions
Peter O’Donovan, University of Toronto & Adobe
Research
Aseem Agarwala, Adobe Research
Aaron Hertzmann, University of Toronto & Adobe
Research

1225 Using Game Principles in UX Research:

A Board Game for Eliciting Future User Needs
Karin Slegers, KU Leuven & iMinds
Sanne Ruelens, iMinds & VUB
Jorick Vissers, Social Spaces & KU Leuven/iMinds
Pieter Duysburgh, iMinds & VUB

Smartwatch Interaction
Session Chair: Daniel Ashbrook, Rochester Institute of
Technology, USA

1229 Investigating the Information Transfer Efficiency

of a 3x3 Watch-back Tactile Display
Jaeyeon Lee, Jaehyun Han, Geehyuk Lee, Korea
Advanced Institute of Science and Technology

1233 SplitBoard: A Simple Split Soft Keyboard for

Wristwatch-sized Touch Screens
Jonggi Hong, Seongkook Heo, Korea Advanced Institute
of Science and Technology
Poika Isokoski, KAIST & University of Tampere
Geehyuk Lee, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and
Technology

1237 Beats: Tapping Gestures for Smart Watches

Ian Oakley, DoYoung Lee, MD. Rasel Islam, Ulsan
National Institute of Science and Technology
Augusto Esteves, University of Madeira

xvii

1247  WatchConnect: A Toolkit for Prototyping

1315 The Transfer of Learning as HCI Similarity:

Smartwatch-Centric Cross-Device Applications

  Steven Houben, IT University of Copenhagen &

University College London
Nicolai Marquardt, University College London

1257  It’s About Time: Smartwatches as Public

Displays

  Jennifer Pearson, Simon Robinson, Matt Jones,

Swansea University

Tangible Interactions
Session Chair: Otmar Hilliges, ETH Zurich, Switzerland

1267  TUIkit: Evaluating Physical and Functional

Experiences of Tangible User Interface
Prototypes

  Jorick Vissers, David Geerts, iMinds / KU Leuven

1277  Lamello: Passive Acoustic Sensing for Tangible

Input Components

  Valkyrie Savage, Adobe Research & University of

California, Berkeley
Andrew Head, Björn Hartmann, University of California,
Berkeley
Dan B. Goldman, Gautham Mysore, Wilmot Li,
Adobe Research

1281  WonderLens: Optical Lenses and Mirrors for
Tangible Interactions on Printed Paper
  Rong-Hao Liang, Chao Shen, Yu-Chien Chan,
Guan-Ting Chou, Liwei Chan, National Taiwan
University
De-Nian Yang, Academia Sinica
Mike Y. Chen, Bing-Yu Chen, National Taiwan
University

1285  FugaciousFilm: Exploring Attentive Interaction

with Ephemeral Material

  Hyosun Kwon, Shashank Jaiswal, Steve Benford,

The University of Nottingham
Sue Ann Seah, Peter Bennett, University of Bristol
Boriana Koleva, Holger Schnädelbach, The University of
Nottingham

1295  3D Printing Pneumatic Device Controls with
Variable Activation Force Capabilities

  Marynel Vázquez, Carnegie Mellon University & Disney

Research Pittsburgh
Eric Brockmeyer, Disney Research Pittsburgh
Ruta Desai, Carnegie Mellon University
Chris Harrison, Scott E. Hudson, Disney Research
Pittsburgh & Carnegie Mellon University

New Evaluation Approaches
Session Chair: David England, Liverpool John Moores University,
UK

1305  Bridging the Theory-Practice Gap: Lessons and
Challenges of Applying the Attachment
Framework for Sustainable HCI Design

  Christian Remy, University of Zurich
Silke Gegenbauer, CSS Insurance
Elaine M. Huang, University of Zurich

Towards an Objective Assessment of the
Sensory-Motor Basis of Naturalness
François Bérard, University Grenoble Alpes
Amélie Rochet-Capellan, University Grenoble Alpes,
CNRS

1325 Formalizing Agreement Analysis for Elicitation
Studies: New Measures, Significance Test, and
Toolkit

Radu-Daniel Vatavu, University Stefan cel
Mare of Suceava
Jacob O. Wobbrock, University of
Washington

1335 Exploring the Effect of Pre-operational Priming

Intervention on Number Entry Errors
Yunqiu Li, Patrick Oladimeji, Harold Thimbleby,
Swansea University

Evaluating Crowdsourcing
Session Chair: Bongwon Suh, Seoul National University,
Republic of Korea

1345 Comparing Person- and Process-centric

Strategies for Obtaining Quality Data on Amazon
Mechanical Turk

Tanushree Mitra, C. J. Hutto, Eric Gilbert,
Georgia Institute of Technology

1355 Crowdsourced Feedback with Imagery Rather

Than Text: Would Designers Use It?
David A. Robb, Stefano Padilla, Britta Kalkreuter,
Mike J. Chantler, Heriot-Watt University

1365 Measuring Crowdsourcing Effort with Error-Time

Curves

Justin Cheng, Stanford University
Jaime Teevan, Microsoft Research
Michael S. Bernstein, Stanford University

1375 The Effects of Sequence and Delay on Crowd

Work
Walter S. Lasecki, University of Rochester
Jeffrey M. Rzeszotarski, Carnegie Mellon University
Adam Marcus, Locu
Jeffrey P. Bigham, Carnegie Mellon University

1379 Crowd Size, Diversity and Performance

Lionel Robert, Daniel M. Romero, University of Michigan

Smart Smartphone Authentication
Session Chair: Andrea Bianchi, Sungkyunkwan University,
Republic of Korea

1383 I Know What You Did Last Week! Do You?

Dynamic Security Questions for Fallback
Authentication on Smartphones

Alina Hang, University of Munich
Alexander De Luca, University of Munich,
DFKI GmbH & Fraunhofer FKIE
Heinrich Hussmann, University of Munich

xviii

1393  Improving Accuracy, Applicability and Usability
of Keystroke Biometrics on Mobile Touchscreen
Devices

  Daniel Buschek, University of Munich

Alexander De Luca, University of Munich & DFKI GmbH
Florian Alt, University of Munich

1403  SwiPIN – Fast and Secure PIN-Entry on

Smartphones

  Emanuel von Zezschwitz, University of Munich

Alexander De Luca, Bruno Brunkow,
Heinrich Hussmann, University of Munich &
DFKI GmbH

1407  Glass Unlock: Enhancing Security of

Smartphone Unlocking through Leveraging a
Private Near-eye Display

  Christian Winkler, Jan Gugenheimer, Ulm University

Alexander De Luca, University of Munich & DFKI GmbH
Gabriel Haas, Philipp Speidel, David Dobbelstein,
Enrico Rukzio, Ulm University

1411  I Feel Like I’m Taking Selfies All Day! Towards

Understanding Biometric Authentication on
Smartphones

Alexander De Luca, University of Munich &
DFKI GmbH
Alina Hang, Emanuel von Zezschwitz,
Heinrich Hussmann, University of Munich

1415  Interrupt Now or Inform Later?: Comparing

Immediate and Delayed Privacy Feedback

  Sameer Patil, Yahoo Labs

Roberto Hoyle, Indiana University
Roman Schlegel, ABB Switzerland Ltd.
Apu Kapadia, Indiana University
Adam J. Lee, University of Pittsburgh

Healthcare Bias, Engagement & Adaptation
Session Chair: Tae-Jung Yun, Samsung Electronics, Republic of
Korea

1419  From Care Plans to Care Coordination:
Opportunities for Computer Support of
Teamwork in Complex Healthcare

Ofra Amir, Barbara J. Grosz,
Krzysztof Z. Gajos, Harvard University
Sonja M. Swenson, Lee M. Sanders,
Stanford University

1429  Engaging Pregnant Women in Kenya with a

Hybrid Computer-Human SMS Communication
System

  Trevor Perrier, Nicola Dell, Brian DeRenzi,
Richard Anderson, University of Washington
John Kinuthia, University of Nairobi
Jennifer Unger, Grace John-Stewart, University of
Washington

1439  It Is All about Perspective: An Exploration of

Mitigating Selective Exposure with Aspect
Indicators

  Q. Vera Liao, Wai-Tat Fu, Sri Shilpa Mamidi,
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Storytelling in InfoVis
Session Chair: Charles Perin, INRIA Saclay, France

1449 Storytelling in Information Visualizations:

Does it Engage Users to Explore Data?
Jeremy Boy, INRIA & Telecom ParisTech
Françoise Detienne, CNRS-Telecom ParisTech
Jean-Daniel Fekete, INRIA, Saclay

1459 Understanding Data Videos: Looking at Narrative

Visualization through the Cinematography Lens
Fereshteh Amini, University of Manitoba
Nathalie Henry Riche, Bongshin Lee, Microsoft Research
Christophe Hurter, University of Toulouse
Pourang Irani, University of Manitoba

1469 How Deceptive are Deceptive Visualizations?
An Empirical Analysis of Common Distortion
Techniques
Anshul Vikram Pandey, Katharina Rall,
Margaret L. Satterthwaite, Oded Nov, Enrico Bertini,
New York University

1479 STRATOS: Using Visualization to Support

Decisions in Strategic Software Release Planning
Bon Adriel Aseniero, Tiffany Wun, David Ledo,
Guenther Ruhe, Anthony Tang, Sheelagh Carpendale,
University of Calgary

Grip, Move & Tilt: Novel Interaction
Session Chair: Jessica Cauchard, Stanford University, USA

1489 Supporting Subtlety with Deceptive Devices

and Illusory Interactions

Fraser Anderson, Tovi Grossman, Autodesk
Research
Daniel Wigdor, University of Toronto
George Fitzmaurice, Autodesk Research

1499 Understanding Users’ Touch Behavior on Large

Mobile Touch-Screens and Assisted Targeting
by Tilting Gesture
Youli Chang, Sehi L’Yi, Kyle Koh, Jinwook Seo,
Seoul National University

1509 One-Handed Bend Interactions with Deformable

Smartphones
Audrey Girouard, Jessica Lo, Md Riyadh,
Farshad Daliri, Alexander Keith Eady,
Carleton University
Jerome Pasquero, Blackberry Limited & Motsai

1519 Grip Change as an Information Side Channel for

Mobile Touch Interaction
Matei Negulescu, Joanna McGrenere, University of
British Columbia

1523 An Experimental Comparison of Vertical and

Horizontal Dynamic Peephole Navigation
Jens Müller, Roman Rädle, University of Konstanz
Hans-Christian Jetter, University College London
Harald Reiterer, University of Konstanz

xix

Interactive Video & Collaborative Annotations
Session Chair: Amy Ogan, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

The Impact of Crowd Work on Workers
Session Chair: Jaime Teevan, Microsoft Research, USA

1535  RIMES: Embedding Interactive Multimedia

1603 Working with Machines: The Impact of

Exercises in Lecture Videos

  Juho Kim, Elena L. Glassman, Microsoft Research &

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Andrés Monroy-Hernández, Meredith Ringel Morris,
Microsoft Research

1545  A Framework for Automatically Generating
Interactive Instructional Scaffolding
  Eleanor O’Rourke, University of Washington

Erik Andersen, Cornell University
Sumit Gulwani, Microsoft Research, Redmond
Zoran Popović, University of Washington

1555  Mudslide: A Spatially Anchored Census of

Student Confusion for Online Lecture Videos
Elena L. Glassman, Juho Kim, Microsoft
Research, Redmond & Massachusetts
Institute of Technology
Andrés Monroy-Hernández,
Meredith Ringel Morris, Microsoft
Research, Redmond

1565  Making Software Tutorial Video Responsive

Cuong Nguyen, Feng Liu, Portland State
University

1569  Gaze-Based Annotations for Reading

Comprehension

  Shiwei Cheng, Zhiqiang Sun, Zhejiang University of

Technology
Lingyun Sun, Zhejiang University
Kirsten Yee, Anind K. Dey, Carnegie Mellon University

HCI for the Elderly
Session Chair: Maria Wolters, University of Edinburgh, UK

1573  Long-Term Use of Motion-Based Video Games

in Care Home Settings

  Kathrin M. Gerling, University of Lincoln

Regan L. Mandryk, University of Saskatchewan
Conor Linehan, University of Lincoln

1583  CoFaçade: A Customizable Assistive Approach

for Elders and Their Helpers

  Jason Chen Zhao, National University of Singapore

Richard C. Davis, Singapore Management University
Pin Sym Foong, Shengdong Zhao, National University of
Singapore

1593  “My Hand Doesn’t Listen to Me!”: Adoption and
Evaluation of a Communication Technology for
the ‘Oldest Old’

  Barbara Barbosa Neves, Rachel L. Franz,

University of Toronto
Cosmin Munteanu, University of Toronto Mississauga &
University of Toronto
Ronald Baecker, Mags Ngo, University of Toronto

Algorithmic and Data-Driven Management on
Human Workers
Min Kyung Lee, Daniel Kusbit, Evan Metsky,
Carnegie Mellon University
Laura Dabbish, Carnegie Mellon University &
Heinz College

1613 TurkBench: Rendering the Market for Turkers

Benjamin V. Hanrahan, Jutta K. Willamowski,
Saiganesh Swaminathan, David B. Martin,
Xerox Research Center Europe

1617 Exploring the Role of Activity Trace Design on

Evaluations of Online Worker Quality
Jennifer Marlow, FX Palo Alto Laboratory, Inc. &
Carnegie Mellon University
Laura A. Dabbish, Heinz College & Carnegie Mellon
University
Jodi L. Forlizzi, Carnegie Mellon University

1621 We Are Dynamo: Overcoming Stalling and

Friction in Collective Action for Crowd Workers

Niloufar Salehi, Stanford University
Lilly C. Irani, University of California,
San Diego
Michael S. Bernstein, Ali Alkhatib,
Eva Ogbe, Stanford University
Kristy Milland, Ryerson University &
We Are Dynamo
Clickhappier, We Are Dynamo &
MTurkGrind

1631 Understanding Malicious Behavior in

Crowdsourcing Platforms: The Case of Online
Surveys
Ujwal Gadiraju, Ricardo Kawase, Stefan Dietze,
Leibniz Universität Hannover
Gianluca Demartini, University of Sheffield

Social Media and Mobile Camera Privacy
Session Chair: Pam Briggs, Northumbria University, UK

1641 “I Saw Images I Didn’t Even Know I Had”:
Understanding User Perceptions of Cloud
Storage Privacy
Jason W. Clark, George Mason University
Peter Snyder, University of Illinois at Chicago
Damon McCoy, George Mason University
Chris Kanich, University of Illinois at Chicago

1645 Sensitive Lifelogs: A Privacy Analysis of Photos

from Wearable Cameras
Roberto Hoyle, Robert Templeman, Indiana University
Bloomington
Denise Anthony, Dartmouth College
David Crandall, Apu Kapadia, Indiana University
Bloomington

xx

Innovation in Theories & Products
Session Chair: Volker Wulf, University of Siegen, Germany

1749 From User-Centered to Adoption-Centered
Design: A Case Study of an HCI Research
Innovation Becoming a Product

Parmit K. Chilana, University of Waterloo
Amy J. Ko, University of Washington
Jacob O. Wobbrock, University of
Washington

1759 Creating Sustainable Cyberinfrastructures

David P. Randall, E. Ilana Diamant, Charlotte P. Lee,
University of Washington

1769 Standards and/as Innovation: Protocols,
Creativity, and Interactive Systems
Development in Ecology

Steven J. Jackson, Cornell University
Sarah Barbrow, Wellesley College

Design and 3D Object Fabrication
Session Chair: David Kim, Microsoft Research, UK

1779 Tactum: A Skin-Centric Approach to Digital

Design and Fabrication

Madeline Gannon, Carnegie Mellon
University
Tovi Grossman, George Fitzmaurice,
Autodesk Research

1789 A Layered Fabric 3D Printer for Soft Interactive

Objects

Huaishu Peng, Disney Research Pittsburgh
& Cornell University
Jen Mankoff, Carnegie Mellon University
Scott E. Hudson, Disney Research
Pittsburgh & Cornell University
James McCann, Disney Research Pittsburgh

1799 Platener: Low-Fidelity Fabrication of 3D Objects

by Substituting 3D Print with Laser-Cut Plates

Dustin Beyer, Serafima Gurevich,
Stefanie Mueller, Hsiang-Ting Chen,
Patrick Baudisch, Hasso Plattner Institute

1807 D-Coil: A Hands-on Approach to Digital 3D

Models Design
Huaishu Peng, Cornell University
Amit Zoran, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem
François V. Guimbretière, Cornell University

1649  Somebody’s Watching Me? Assessing the

Effectiveness of Webcam Indicator Lights
Rebecca S. Portnoff, Linda N. Lee, University of
California, Berkeley
Serge Egelman, University of California, Berkeley &
International Computer Science Institute
Pratyush Mishra, Derek Leung, David Wagner,
University of California, Berkeley

1659  From Third to Surveilled Place: The Mobile in

Irish Pubs
Norman Makoto Su, Lulu Wang, Indiana University
Bloomington

1669  Is This Thing On? Crowdsourcing Privacy

Indicators for Ubiquitous Sensing Platforms
  Serge Egelman, University of California, Berkeley &

International Computer Science Institute
Raghudeep Kannavara, Richard Chow, Intel

DIY Healthcare: Apps & Wearables
Session Chair: David Coyle, University College Dublin

1679  Blood Pressure Beyond the Clinic: Rethinking

a Health Metric for Everyone

Logan Kendall, Microsoft Research &
University of Washington
Dan Morris, Desney Tan, Microsoft
Research

1689  Concealing or Revealing Mobile Medical

Devices?: Designing for Onstage and Offstage
Presentation
Aisling Ann O’Kane, Yvonne Rogers,
Ann E. Blandford, University College London

1699  Understanding Individual Differences for
Tailored Smoking Cessation Apps
Jeni Paay, Jesper Kjeldskov,
Mikael B. Skov, Lars Lichon,
Stephan Rasmussen, Aalborg University

1709  FeedFinder: A Location-Mapping Mobile

Application for Breastfeeding Women
Madeline Balaam, Rob Comber, Ed Jenkins,
Selina Sutton, Andrew Garbett, University of Newcastle

Social Embodied Interaction
Session Chair: Gina Venolia, Microsoft Research, USA

1719  Using an Interactive Animated Avatar’s Facial

Expressiveness to Increase Persuasiveness
and Socialness
Jennifer Hyde, Elizabeth J. Carter, Sara Kiesler,
Jessica K. Hodgins, Carnegie Mellon University

1729  Study on Gaze Direction Perception of Face

Image Displayed on Rotatable Flat Display
Ikkaku Kawaguchi, Hideaki Kuzuoka, University of
Tsukuba
Yusuke Suzuki, OKI Electric Industry Co., Ltd.

1739  DynamicDuo: Co-presenting with Virtual Agents

Ha Trinh, Lazlo Ring, Timothy Bickmore,
Northeastern University

xxi

Understanding & Extending Touch Interfaces
Session Chair: Theophanis Tsandilas, INRIA, France

Families and Their Use of Technology
Session Chair: Jennifer Marlow, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

1817  Performance and Ergonomics of Touch

1895 Managing Children’s Online Identities:

Surfaces: A Comparative Study Using
Biomechanical Simulation

Myroslav Bachynskyi, Max Planck Institute
for Informatics & Saarland University
Gregorio Palmas, Max Planck Institute
for Informatics
Antti Oulasvirta, Aalto University
Jürgen Steimle, Tino Weinkauf, Max Planck
Institute for Informatics

1827  How Much Faster is Fast Enough? User

Perception of Latency & Latency Improvements
in Direct and Indirect Touch

Jonathan Deber, Ricardo Jota,
Clifton Forlines, University of Toronto &
Tactual Labs
Daniel Wigdor, University of Toronto

1837  The Effect of Edge Targets on Touch

Performance

  Daniel Avrahami, FX Palo Alto Laboratory, Inc.

1847  FlickBoard: Enabling Trackpad Interaction
Automatic Mode Switching on a Capacitive-
sensing Keyboard

  Ying-Chao Tung, Ta-Yang Cheng, National Taiwan

University
Neng-Hao Yu, National Chengchi University
Chiuan Wang, National Taiwan University
Mike Y. Chen, National Taiwan University & Academia
Sinica

1851  ExtensionSticker: A Proposal for a Striped
Pattern Sticker to Extend Touch Interfaces
and its Assessment

  Kunihiro Kato, Homei Miyashita, Meiji University

Sharing & Collaboration @ Work
Session Chair: Steven Drucker, Microsoft Research, USA

1855  MUBox: Multi-User Aware Personal Cloud

Storage

Michael Nebeling, Matthias Geel,
Syrotkin, Moira C. Norrie, ETH Zurich

How Parents Decide what to Disclose about
their Children Online
Tawfiq Ammari, Priya Kumar, Cliff Lampe,
Sarita Schoenebeck, University of Michigan

1905 Understanding and Supporting Fathers and

Fatherhood on Social Media Sites

Tawfiq Ammari, Sarita Schoenebeck,
University of Michigan

1915 Look, My Baby Is Using an iPad! An Analysis

of YouTube Videos of Infants and Toddlers
Using Tablets
Juan Pablo Hourcade, Sarah L. Mascher, David Wu,
Luiza Pantoja, University of Iowa

Understanding Crowdwork in Many Domains
Session Chair: Uichin Lee, Korea Advanced Institute of Science
and Technology, South Korea

1925 Apparition: Crowdsourced User Interfaces that

Come to Life as You Sketch Them

Walter S. Lasecki, University of Rochester
Juho Kim, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology
Nicholas Rafter, Independent Researcher
Onkur Sen, Stanford University
Jeffrey P. Bigham, Carnegie Mellon
University
Michael S. Bernstein, Stanford University

1935 Zensors: Adaptive, Rapidly Deployable,
Human-Intelligent Sensor Feeds
Gierad Laput, Carnegie Mellon University
Walter S. Lasecki, University of Rochester
Jason Wiese, Robert Xiao, Jeffrey P. Bigham,
Chris Harrison, Carnegie Mellon University

1945 Exploring Privacy and Accuracy Trade-Offs

in Crowdsourced Behavioral Video Coding
Walter S. Lasecki, Mitchell Gordon, University of
Rochester
Winnie Leung, Ellen Lim, Jeffrey P. Bigham,
Steven P. Dow, Carnegie Mellon University

1865  DocuViz: Visualizing Collaborative Writing

1955 Crowdsourcing Stereotypes: Linguistic Bias

in Metadata Generated via GWAP
Jahna Otterbacher, Open University of Cyprus

  Dakuo Wang, Judith S. Olson, Jingwen Zhang,

Trung Nguyen, Gary M. Olson, University of California,
Irvine

1875  Communication through Boundary Objects

in Distributed Agile Teams

  Johan Kaj Blomkvist, Johan Persson, Johan Åberg,

Linköping University

1885  How to Drive a London Bus: Measuring

Performance in a Mobile and Remote Workplace

  Gary W. Pritchard, Newcastle University
Pam Briggs, Northumbria University
John Vines, Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University

xxii

Eco-Green: Encouraging Energy
Conservation
Session Chair: Germaine Irwin, University of Maryland Baltimore
County, USA

1965  Tiree Energy Pulse: Exploring Renewable
Energy Forecasts on the Edge of the Grid
Will Simm, Maria Angela Ferrario,
Adrian Friday, Peter Newman,
Stephen Forshaw, Mike Hazas,
Lancaster University
Alan Dix, Tiree Tech Waves & University
of Birmingham

1975  Designing Persuasive Technology to Manage

Peak Electricity Demand in Ontario Homes

  Valerie Sugarman, Edward Lank, University of Waterloo

1985  Eco-Forecasting for Domestic Electricity Use

  Jesper Kjeldskov, Mikael B. Skov, Jeni Paay,
Dennis Lund, Tue Madsen, Michael Nielsen,
Aalborg University

1989  Beyond Eco-Feedback: Adding Online Manual

and Automated Controls to Promote Workplace
Sustainability

  Ray Yun, Carnegie Mellon University & Hongik

University (Korea)
Azizan Aziz, Peter Scupelli, Bertrand Lasternas,
Chenlu Zhang, Vivian Loftness, Carnegie Mellon
University

1993  Understanding the Role of Thermography in
Energy Auditing: Current Practices and the
Potential for Automated Solutions

Matthew Louis Mauriello, University of
Maryland, College Park
Leyla Norooz, Jon E. Froehlich, University
of Maryland

Sports Tracking & Training
Session Chair: Hao-Hua Chu, National Taiwan University, Taiwan

2003  Keepin’ it Real: Challenges when Designing

Sports-Training Games

  Mads Møller Jensen, Majken K. Rasmussen,

Aarhus University
Florian “Floyd” Mueller, RMIT University
Kaj Grønbæk, Aarhus University

2013  Flow is Not Enough: Understanding the

Needs of Advanced Amateur Runners
to Design Motivation Technology

  Kristina Knaving, University of Gothenburg

Paweł Woźniak, Morten Fjeld, Chalmers University
of Technology
Staffan Björk, University of Gothenburg

2023  Jogging with a Quadcopter

  Florian ‘Floyd’ Mueller, Matthew Muirhead,

RMIT University

2033 ClimbSense - Automatic Climbing Route

Recognition using Wrist-worn Inertia
Measurement Units
Felix Kosmalla, German Research Center for Artificial
Intelligence (DFKI)
Florian Daiber, German Research Center for Artificial
Intelligence (DFKI) & Lancaster University
Antonio Krüger, German Research Center for Artificial
Intelligence (DFKI)

Feeling & Communicating Emotions
Session Chair: Rongrong Wang, Samsung Research America, USA

2043 Towards Multimodal Affective Feedback:

Interaction between Visual and Haptic
Modalities
 Akshita, Harini Sampath, Bipin Indurkhya,
International Institute of Information Technology
Eunhwa Lee, Yudong Bae, Samsung Electronics
Co. Ltd.

2053 Emotions Mediated Through Mid-Air Haptics

Marianna Obrist, University of Sussex
Sriram Subramanian, University of Bristol
Elia Gatti, University of Birmingham
Benjamin Long, Thomas Carter,
Ultrahaptics Limited

2063 In the Heat of the Moment: Subjective

Interpretations of Thermal Feedback During
Interaction
Graham Wilson, Gavin Davidson, Stephen Brewster,
University of Glasgow

2073 EnviroPulse: Providing Feedback about the

Expected Affective Valence of the Environment
Deltcho Valtchanov, Mark Hancock, University of
Waterloo

Critical Design
Session Chair: Giulio Jacucci, University of Helsinki, Finland

2083 Expanding and Refining Design and Criticality

in HCI

James Pierce, Carnegie Mellon University
Phoebe Sengers, Cornell University
Tad Hirsch, University of Washington
Tom Jenkins, Georgia Institute of
Technology
William Gaver, Goldsmiths College
Carl DiSalvo, Georgia Institute of
Technology

2093 Immodest Proposals: Research Through Design

and Knowledge

Jeffrey Bardzell, Shaowen Bardzell,
Indiana University Bloomington
Lone Koefoed Hansen, Aarhus University

xxiii

2103  Making Multiple Uses of the Obscura 1C Digital
Camera: Reflecting on the Design, Production,
Packaging and Distribution of a
Counterfunctional Device

  James Pierce, Carnegie Mellon University & University

of California, Berkeley
Eric Paulos, University of California, Berkeley

2113  Pause Moment Experience in SNS

Communication

  Jae-eul Bae, Youn-kyung Lim, Korea Advanced Institute

of Science and Technology
Jin-bae Bang, KAKAOLAB
Myung-suk Kim, Korea Advanced Institute of Science
and Technology

HMDs in Augmented & Virtual Reality
Session Chair: Shahram Izadi, Microsoft Research, UK

2125  Eye-Wearable Technology for Machine

Maintenance: Effects of Display Position and
Hands-free Operation

  Xianjun Sam Zheng, Cedric Foucault,

Patrik Matos da Silva, Siddharth Dasari, Tao Yang,
Siemens Corporate Technology
Stuart Goose, Siemens Technology to Business

2135  Belt: An Unobtrusive Touch Input Device for

Head-worn Displays

  David Dobbelstein, Philipp Hock, Enrico Rukzio,

Ulm University

2139  Content Destabilization for Head-Mounted

Displays

  Felix Lauber, Sophia Cook, Andreas Butz,

University of Munich

2143  A Dose of Reality: Overcoming Usability
Challenges in VR Head-Mounted Displays

  Mark McGill, Daniel Boland, Roderick Murray-Smith,

Stephen Brewster, University of Glasgow

2153  Accuracy of Pedometry on a Head-mounted

Display

  Ilias Apostolopoulos, University of Nevada, Reno

Daniel S. Coming, Google, Inc.
Eelke Folmer, University of Nevada, Reno

2157  Level-Ups: Motorized Stilts that Simulate Stair

Steps in Virtual Reality

  Dominik Schmidt, Robert Kovacs, Vikram Mehta,
Udayan Umapathi, Sven Köhler, Lung-Pan Cheng,
Patrick Baudisch, Hasso Plattner Institute

Tangible Interaction with Phones
Session Chair: Shengdong Zhao, National University of Singapore,
Singapore

2161 Acoustruments: Passive, Acoustically-Driven,
Interactive Controls for Handheld Devices

Gierad Laput, Carnegie Mellon University
& Disney Research Pittsburgh
Eric Brockmeyer, Disney Research
Pittsburgh
Scott E. Hudson, Chris Harrison, Carnegie
Mellon University & Disney Research
Pittsburgh

2171 HaptiCase: Back-of-Device Tactile Landmarks
for Eyes-Free Absolute Indirect Touch
Christian Corsten, Christian Cherek, Thorsten Karrer,
Jan Borchers, RWTH Aachen University

2181 The Trial of Bendi in a Coffeehouse: Use of a

Shape-Changing Device for a Tactile-Visual
Phone Conversation
Young-Woo Park, Joohee Park, Tek-Jin Nam,
Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology

2191 SpecTrans: Versatile Material Classification

for Interaction with Textureless, Specular and
Transparent Surfaces
Munehiko Sato, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Shigeo Yoshida, The University of Tokyo
Alex Olwal, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Boxin Shi, Massachusetts Institute of Technology &
Singapore University of Technology and Design
Atsushi Hiyama, Tomohiro Tanikawa, Michitaka Hirose,
The University of Tokyo
Ramesh Raskar, Massachusetts Institute of Technology

UI Impact on Performance & Decisions
Session Chair: Tom Gross, University of Bamberg, Germany

2201 Displayed Uncertainty Improves Driving

Experience and Behavior: The Case of Range
Anxiety in an Electric Car
Malte F. Jung, Cornell University
David Sirkin, Turgut M. Gür, Stanford University
Martin Steinert, Norwegian University of Science and
Technology

2211 Designing Information for Remediating

Cognitive Biases in Decision-Making
Yunfeng Zhang, University of Oregon
Rachel K. E. Bellamy, Wendy A. Kellogg, IBM T.J.
Watson Research Center

2221 Quick Affective Judgments: Validation of a

Method for Primed Product Comparisons
Jussi P. P. Jokinen, Johanna M. Silvennoinen,
Piia M. H. Perälä, Pertti Saariluoma, University of
Jyväskylä

2231 Effects of Ad Quality & Content-Relevance on

Perceived Content Quality

Henriette Cramer, Yahoo Labs

xxiv

Player Performance & Experience in Games
Session Chair: Jan Smeddinck, University of Bremen, Germany

2235  The Goal of Scoring: Exploring the Role of
Game Performance in Educational Games

  Casper Harteveld, Steven C. Sutherland, Northeastern

University

2245  Moving Beyond Fun: Evaluating Serious

Experience in Digital Games

Ioanna Iacovides, Anna L. Cox,
University College London

Enhanced Security with Passwords &
CAPTCHAs
Session Chair: Serge Egelman, University of California, Berkeley,
USA

2315 Towards Making Random Passwords

Memorable: Leveraging Users’ Cognitive Ability
Through Multiple Cues
Mahdi Nasrullah Al-Ameen, Matthew Wright,
Shannon Scielzo, The University of Texas at Arlington

2325 ActivPass: Your Daily Activity is Your Password

2255  Now You Can Compete with Anyone: Balancing
Players of Different Skill Levels in a First-Person
Shooter Game

Rodrigo Vicencio-Moreira,
Regan L. Mandryk, Carl Gutwin,
University of Saskatchewan

2265  All about that Base: Differing Player

Experiences in Video Game Genres and the
Unique Case of MOBA Games

  Daniel Johnson, Queensland University of Technology
Lennart E. Nacke, University of Ontario Institute of
Technology
Peta Wyeth, Queensland University of Technology

Neighborhoods & Disadvantaged
Communities
Session Chair: Katharina Reinecke, University of Michigan, USA

2275  Exploring Learning Ecologies among People

Experiencing Homelessness

  Angelika Strohmayer, Rob Comber, Madeline Balaam,

Newcastle University

2285  The Promise of the Sharing Economy among

Disadvantaged Communities

  Tawanna R. Dillahunt, Amelia R. Malone, University of

Maryland

2295  Practice-based Design of a Neighborhood

Portal: Focusing on Elderly Tenants in a City
Quarter Living Lab

Claudia Müller, Dominik Hornung,
Theodor Hamm, Volker Wulf,
of Siegen

2305  This Digital Life: A Neighborhood-Based Study

of Adolescents’ Lives Online

  Jessica A. Pater, Georgia Institute of Technology
Andrew D. Miller, University of Washington
Elizabeth D. Mynatt, Georgia Institute of Technology

Sourav Kumar Dandapat, IIT Kharagpur
Swadhin Pradhan, University of Texas at Austin
Bivas Mitra, IIT Kharagpur
Romit Roy Choudhury, University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign
Niloy Ganguly, IIT Kharagpur

2335 Constructing Secure Audio CAPTCHAs by

Exploiting Differences between Humans and
Machines
Hendrik Meutzner, Ruhr University Bochum
Santosh Gupta, Visvesvaraya National Institute
of Technology
Dorothea Kolossa, Ruhr University Bochum

2339 Easy to Draw, but Hard to Trace? On of the
Observability Grid-based (Un)lock Patterns
Emanuel von Zezschwitz, University of Munich
Alexander De Luca, University of Munich &
DFKI GmbH
Philipp Janssen, Heinrich Hussmann, University
of Munich

2343 On the Effectiveness of Pattern Lock Strength
Meters: Measuring the Strength of Real World
Pattern Locks
Youngbae Song, Geumhwan Cho, Seongyeol Oh,
Hyoungshick Kim, Sungkyunkwan University
Jun Ho Huh, Honeywell ACS Laboratories

Accessibility at Home & on The Go
Session Chair: Hironobu Takagi, IBM Research, Japan

2353 RegionSpeak: Quick Comprehensive Spatial

Descriptions of Complex Images for Blind Users
Yu Zhong, Walter S. Lasecki, Erin Brady, University
of Rochester
Jeffrey P. Bigham, University of Rochester &
Carnegie Mellon University

2363 FingerReader: A Wearable Device to Explore

Printed Text on the Go
Roy Shilkrot, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Jochen Huber, Massachusetts Institute of Technology &
Singapore University of Technology and Design
Wong Meng Ee, Nanyang Technological University
Pattie Maes, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Suranga Chandima Nanayakkara, Singapore University
of Technology and Design

xxv

2373  Collaborative Accessibility: How Blind and
Sighted Companions Co-Create Accessible
Home Spaces

  Stacy M. Branham, University of Maryland

Baltimore County
Shaun K. Kane, University of Colorado Boulder

Telepresence Video, Robots, and Walls
Session Chair: John Tang, Microsoft Research, USA

2383  ImmerseBoard: Immersive Telepresence

Experience using a Digital Whiteboard

  Keita Higuchi, The University of Tokyo

Yinpeng Chen, Philip A. Chou, Zhengyou Zhang,
Zicheng Liu, Microsoft Research

2393  Accuracy of Deictic Gestures to Support

Telepresence on Wall-sized Displays
  Ignacio Avellino, INRIA & Univ Paris-Sud

Cédric Fleury, Michel Beaudouin-Lafon, Univ Paris-Sud
& CNRS, INRIA

2397  Can You See Me Now? How Field of View

Affects Collaboration in Robotic Telepresence
  Steven Johnson, Irene Rae, Bilge Mutlu, University of

Wisconsin-Madison
Leila Takayama, Willow Garage, Inc.

Experience Design for Games
Session Chair: Florian “Floyd” Mueller, RMIT University,
Australia

2407  Automatic Game Progression Design through

Analysis of Solution Features
  Eric Butler, University of Washington
Erik Andersen, Cornell University
Adam M. Smith, University of Washington
Sumit Gulwani, Microsoft Research
Zoran Popović, University of Washington

2417  Pass the Ball: Enforced Turn-Taking in Activity

Tracking

  John Rooksby, Mattias Rost, Alistair Morrison,

Matthew Chalmers, University of Glasgow

2427  The Data Driven Lives of Wargaming Miniatures

  Dimitrios Paris Darzentas, Michael A. Brown,
Martin Flintham, Steve Benford, University of
Nottingham

2437  Provenance for the People: Ann HCI

Perspective on the W3C PROV Standard
through an Online Game

  Khaled Bachour, Richard Wetzel, Martin Flintham,

University of Nottingham
Trung Dong Huynh, University of Southampton
Tom Rodden, University of Nottingham
Luc Moreau, University of Southampton

Digital & Materials Fabrication
Session Chair: Stefanie Mueller, Hasso Plattner Institute, Germany

2447 Foundations of Materials Experience:

An Approach for HCI
Elisa Giaccardi, Elvin Karana, Delft University
of Technology

2457 PaperPulse: An Integrated Approach for
Embedding Electronics in Paper Designs
Raf Ramakers, Kashyap Todi, Kris Luyten,
Hasselt University - tUL - iMinds

2467 Data-Things: Digital Fabrication Situated within
Participatory Data Translation Activities
Bettina Nissen, John Bowers, Newcastle University

2477 Being the Machine: Reconfiguring Agency and

Control in Hybrid Fabrication

Laura Devendorf, Kimiko Ryokai,
University of California, Berkeley

Tactile Notifications for Phones & Wearables
Session Chair: Max Wilson, The University of Nottingham, UK

2487 OmniVib: Towards Cross-body Spatiotemporal

Vibrotactile Notifications for Mobile Phones
Jessalyn Alvina, National University of Singapore,
INRIA & Univ Paris-Sud
Shengdong Zhao, Simon T. Perrault, Maryam Azh,
Thijs Roumen, National University of Singapore
Morten Fjeld, Chalmers University of Technology

2497 NotiRing: A Comparative Study of Notification
Channels for Wearable Interactive Rings
Thijs Roumen, National University of Singapore &
Hasso Plattner Institute
Simon T. Perrault, Shengdong Zhao, National University
of Singapore

2501 Skin Drag Displays: Dragging a Physical Tactor

across the User’s Skin Produces a Stronger
Tactile Stimulus than Vibrotactile
Alexandra Ion, Hasso Plattner Institute
Edward Wang, University of Washington
Patrick Baudisch, Hasso Plattner Institute

2505 Cruise Control for Pedestrians: Controlling

Walking Direction using Electrical Muscle
Stimulation

Max Pfeiffer, Tim Dünte, University of
Hannover
Stefan Schneegass, University of Stuttgart
Florian Alt, University of Munich
Michael Rohs, University of Hannover

2515 Affordance++: Allowing Objects to
Communicate Dynamic Use

Pedro Lopes, Patrik Jonell,
Patrick Baudisch, Hasso Plattner Institute

xxvi

Automation and Interactive Feedback
Session Chair: Davide Spano, University of Cagliari, Italy

2525  “Automation Surprise” in Aviation: Real-Time

Solutions

  Frederic Dehais, Vsevolod Peysakhovich,

Sebastien Scannella, Jennifer Fongue, Thibault Gateau,
ISAE

2535  The Role of Environmental Predictability and

Costs in Relying on Automation

  Steven C. Sutherland, Casper Harteveld, Northeastern

University
Michael E. Young, Kansas State University

2545  An Architecture for Generating Interactive

Feedback in Probabilistic User Interfaces

Julia Schwarz, Jennifer Mankoff,
Scott E. Hudson, Carnegie Mellon
University

2555  IDSense: A Human Object Interaction Detection

System Based on Passive UHF RFID

  Hanchuan Li, University of Washington & Disney

Research Pittsburgh
Can Ye, Carnegie Mellon University & Disney Research
Pittsburgh
Alanson P. Sample, Disney Research Pittsburgh

Art & Performance
Session Chair: Thecla Schiphorst, Simon Fraser University,
Canada

2565  What if HCI Becomes a Fashion Driven

Discipline?

  Yue Pan, Erik Stolterman, Indiana University

Bloomington

2569  The Smartphone Project: An Augmented Dance

Performance

  Leif Oppermann, Clemens Putschli, Constantin Brosda,

Oleksandr Lobunets, Fraunhofer FIT
Fabien Prioville, fabien prioville dance company

2573  I’d Hide You: Performing Live Broadcasting in

Public

Stuart Reeves, University of Nottingham
Christian Greiffenhagen, Loughborough
University
Martin Flintham, Steve Benford, University
of Nottingham
Matt Adams, Ju Row-Farr, Nick
Tandavanitj, Blast Theory

2583  Making the Invisible Visible: Design to Support
the Documentation of Participatory Arts
Experiences

  Jonathan Hook, University of York

Rachel Clarke, Newcastle University
John McCarthy, University College Cork
Kate Anderson, Helix Arts
Jane Dudman, Peter Wright, Newcastle University

2593 Trap it! A Playful Human-Biology Interaction for

a Museum Installation
Seung Ah Lee, Engin Bumbacher, Alice M. Chung,
Nate Cira, Byron Walker, Ji Young Park, Barry Starr,
Paulo Blikstein, Ingmar H. Riedel-Kruse, Stanford
University

Bridging People & Beliefs with Social Media
Session Chair: N. Sadat Shami, IBM, USA

2603 Modeling Ideology and Predicting Policy

Change with Social Media: Case of Same-Sex
Marriage

Amy X. Zhang, Massachusetts Institute
of Technology & Microsoft Research
Scott Counts, Microsoft Research

2613 “Is it Weird to Still be a Virgin?:” Anonymous,
Locally Targeted Questions on Facebook
Confession Boards
Jeremy Birnholtz, Nicholas Aaron Ross Merola,
Arindam Paul, Northwestern University

2623 Social Media Dynamics of Global Co-presence

During the 2014 FIFA World Cup
Jae Won Kim, Dongwoo Kim, Korea Advanced Institute
of Science and Technology
Brian Keegan, Northeastern University
Joon Hee Kim, Suin Kim, Alice Oh, Korea Advanced
Institute of Science and Technology

2633 Bridges into the Unknown: Personalizing

Connections to Little-known Countries
Yelena Mejova, Javier Borge-Holthoefer, Ingmar Weber,
Qatar Computing Research Institute

Quantified Self for Humans & Pets
Session Chair: Rodrigo de Oliveira, Telefonica Research, Spain

2643 Change of Heart: Emotion Tracking to Promote

Behavior Change
Victoria Hollis, Artie Konrad, Steve Whittaker,
University of California, Santa Cruz

2653 Beyond Self-Tracking and Reminders:

Designing Smartphone Apps That Support
Habit Formation
Katarzyna Stawarz, Anna L. Cox, Ann Blandford,
University College London

2663 Problematising Upstream Technology through

Speculative Design: The Case of Quantified
Cats and Dogs

Shaun Lawson, Ben Kirman,
Conor Linehan, Tom Feltwell,
Lisa Hopkins, University of Lincoln

2673 Re-Centering Multispecies Practices:

A Canine Interface for Cancer Detection Dogs
Clara Mancini, The Open University
Rob Harris, Medical Detection Dogs
Brendan Aengenheister, The Open University
Claire Guest, Medical Detection Dogs

xxvii

Visualizing Statistics & Graphs
Session Chair: Benjamin Bach, INRIA, France

2683  (s|qu)eries: Visual Regular Expressions for

Querying and Exploring Event Sequences

  Emanuel Zgraggen, Microsoft Research &

Brown University
Steven M. Drucker, Danyel Fisher, Robert DeLine,
Microsoft Research

2693  Statsplorer: Guiding Novices in Statistical

Analysis

  Chat Wacharamanotham, Krishna Subramanian,

Sarah Theres Völkel, Jan Borchers, RWTH Aachen
University

2703  Investigating the Direct Manipulation of Ranking

Tables for Time Navigation

Romain Vuillemot, Harvard University
Charles Perin, INRIA, Univ Paris-Sud, &
CNRS-LIMSI

2707  Dynamic Opacity Optimization for Scatter Plots

Justin Matejka, Fraser Anderson,
George Fitzmaurice, Autodesk Research

2711  Evaluating How Level of Detail of Visual History

Affects Process Memory

  Eric D. Ragan, John R. Goodall, Oak Ridge National

Laboratory
Albert Tung, Rio Hondo College

Understanding Everyday Use of Mobile
Phones
Session Chair: Matt Jones, Swansea University, UK

2729  Demand in My Pocket: Mobile Devices and the

Data Connectivity Marshalled in Support of
Everyday Practice

  Carolynne Lord, Mike Hazas, Adrian K. Clear,
Oliver Bates, Rosalind Whittam, Janine Morley,
Adrian Friday, Lancaster University

2739  An In-Situ Study of Mobile App & Mobile Search

Interactions

  Juan Pablo Carrascal, Pompeu Fabra University

Karen Church, Yahoo Labs

2749  The Composition and Use of Modern Mobile

Phonebooks

  Frank Bentley, Ying-Yu Chen, Yahoo Labs

GUI Size, Resolution & Layout
Session Chair: Enrico Rukzio, Institute of Media Informatics,
Germany

2759 Effects of Display Size and Resolution on User
Behavior and Insight Acquisition in Visual
Exploration
Khairi Reda, Argonne National Laboratory &
University of Hawai’i at Mānoa
Andrew E. Johnson, University of Illinois at Chicago
Michael E. Papka, Argonne National Laboratory &
Northern Illinois University
Jason Leigh, University of Hawai’i at Mānoa

2769 Subjective and Objective Effects of Tablet’s

Pixel Density
Lars Lischke, Sven Mayer, Katrin Wolf,
Alireza Sahami Shirazi, Niels Henze, University of
Stuttgart

2773 Push-Edge and Slide-Edge: Scrolling by
Pushing Against the Viewport Edge
Sylvain Malacria, University College London &
INRIA Lille
Jonathan Aceituno, Inria Lille & University of Lille
Philip Quinn, University of Canterbury
Géry Casiez, Inria Lille & University of Lille
Andy Cockburn, University of Canterbury
Nicolas Roussel, Inria Lille

2777 Investigating Visual Feedforward for Target

Expansion Techniques
Maxime Guillon, University Grenoble Alpes &
Aesculap SAS
François Leitner, Aesculap SAS
Laurence Nigay, University Grenoble Alpes

2787 GACA: Group-Aware Command-based
Arrangement of Graphic Elements
Pengfei Xu, HKUST
Hongbo Fu, City University of Hong Kong
Chiew-Lan Tai, HKUST
Takeo Igarashi, The University of Tokyo

Kids Social, Emotional & Special Needs
Session Chair: Konstantinos Kazakos, Newcastle University, UK

2797 Designing Social and Emotional Skills Training:

The Challenges and Opportunities for
Technology Support
Petr Slovák, Microsoft Research & Vienna University
of Technology
Ran Gilad-Bachrach, Microsoft Research
Geraldine Fitzpatrick, Vienna University of Technology

2801 Designing Autism Research for Maximum

Impact
Elizabeth J. Carter, Jennifer Hyde, Carnegie Mellon
University

2805 Networked Empowerment on Facebook among
Parents of Children with Special Needs
Tawfiq Ammari, Sarita Schoenebeck, University of
Michigan

xxviii

2815  Toward 3D-Printed Movable Tactile Pictures for

2893 Improving SSL Warnings: Comprehension and

Children with Visual Impairments

  Jeeeun Kim, Tom Yeh, University of Colorado Boulder

2825  Multimodal Analysis in Participatory Design
with Children: A Primary School Case Study
  Jan Derboven, Maarten Van Mechelen, Karin Slegers,

iMinds - KU Leuven

2829  The Fun-Serious Ambiguity in Educational

Game

  Jan Derboven, Bieke Zaman, Jorick Vissers,

David Geerts, Dirk De Grooff, iMinds - KU Leuven

HCI for Civic Engagement
Session Chair: John Vines, Newcastle University, UK

2833  HCI, Civic Engagement & Trust

  Mike Harding, Bran Knowles, Nigel Davies,

Mark Rouncefield, Lancaster University

2843  Factful: Engaging Taxpayers in the Public
Discussion of a Government Budget

Juho Kim, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology
Eun-Young Ko, Jonghyuk Jung,
Chang Won Lee, Korea Advanced Institute
of Science and Technology
Nam Wook Kim, Harvard University
Jihee Kim, Korea Advanced Institute of
Science and Technology

2853  Contesting the City: Enacting the Political
Through Digitally Supported Urban Walks

  Clara Crivellaro, Rob Comber, Martyn Dade-Robertson,

Simon J. Bowen, Peter Wright, Patrick Olivier,
Newcastle University

2863  Data-in-Place: Thinking through the Relations

Between Data and Community

Alex S. Taylor, Siân Lindley, Tim Regan,
David Sweeney, Microsoft Research
Vasillis Vlachokyriakos, Newcastle
University
Lillie Grainger, University of Nottingham
Jessa Lingel, Microsoft Research

Adherence
Adrienne Porter Felt, Alex Ainslie, Robert W. Reeder,
Sunny Consolvo, Somas Thyagaraja, Alan Bettes,
Helen Harris, Google, Inc.
Jeff Grimes, University of Pennsylvania

2903 A Spoonful of Sugar? The Impact of Guidance
and Feedback on Password-Creation Behavior
Richard Shay, Lujo Bauer, Nicolas Christin,
Lorrie Faith Cranor, Alain Forget, Saranga Komanduri,
Carnegie Mellon University
Michelle L. Mazurek, University of Maryland
William Melicher, Sean M. Segreti, Blase Ur,
Carnegie Mellon University

Wellness & Wearables
Session Chair: Marianna Obrist, University of Sussex, UK

2913 Snot, Sweat, Pain, Mud, and Snow —

Performance and Experience in the Use of
Sports Watches
Jakob Tholander, Stockholm University
Stina Nylander, SICS

2923 Contextual Influences on the Use and Non-Use

of Digital Technology While Exercising at the
Gym
Misha Patel, Foolproof & University College London
Aisling Ann O’Kane, University College London

2933 TastyBeats: Designing Palatable

Representations of Physical Activity

Rohit Ashok Khot, Jeewon Lee,
RMIT University
Deepti Aggarwal, University of Melbourne
Larissa Hjorth, Florian ‘Floyd’ Mueller,
RMIT University

2943 As Light as your Footsteps: Altering Walking

Sounds to Change Perceived Body Weight,
Emotional State and Gait

Ana Tajadura-Jiménez, Maria Basia,
Ophelia Deroy, Merle Fairhurst,
Nicolai Marquardt,
Nadia Bianchi-Berthouze,
University College London

Security Feedback & Warnings
Session Chair: Alexander De Luca, University of Munich,
Germany

Task Interruption & Resumption
Session Chair: Martin Halvey, University of Strathclyde, UK

2873  Scaling the Security Wall: Developing a Security

2953 SwitchBack: Using Focus and Saccade

Behavior Intentions Scale (SeBIS)

Serge Egelman, International Computer
Science Institute
Eyal Peer, Bar-Ilan University

2883  How Polymorphic Warnings Reduce Habituation
in the Brain: Insights from an fMRI Study

  Bonnie Brinton Anderson, C. Brock Kirwan,
Jeffrey L. Jenkins, Brigham Young University
David Eargle, University of Pittsburgh
Seth Howard, Google, Inc.
Anthony Vance, Brigham Young University

Tracking to Guide Users’ Attention for Mobile
Task Resumption
Alexander Mariakakis, Mayank Goel,
Md Tanvir Islam Aumi, Shwetak N. Patel,
Jacob O. Wobbrock, University of Washington

2963 EyeBookmark: Assisting Recovery from

Interruption during Reading
Jaemin Jo, Seoul National University
Bohyoung Kim, Seoul National University
Bundang Hospital
Jinwook Seo, Seoul National University

xxix

2967  The Effects of Chronic Multitasking on

Analytical Writing

Danielle M. Lottridge,
Rosakranse, Catherine S. Oh,
Sean J. Westwood, Katherine Baldoni,
Abrey S. Mann, Clifford I. Nass,
Stanford University

2971  What Makes Interruptions Disruptive? A

Process-Model Account of the Effects of the
Problem State Bottleneck on Task Interruption
and Resumption

Jelmer P. Borst, Niels A. Taatgen,
Hedderik van Rijn, University of Groningen

2981  Interruptibility of Software Developers and its

Prediction Using Psycho-Physiological Sensors

  Manuela Züger, Thomas Fritz, University of Zurich

Using Random Body Parts for Input
Session Chair: Patrick Baudisch, Hasso Plattner Institute,
Germany

2991  iSkin: Flexible, Stretchable and Visually

Customizable On-Body Touch Sensors for
Mobile Computing

Martin Weigel, Max Planck Institute for
Informatics
Tong Lu, Carnegie Mellon University
Gilles Bailly, CNRS LTCI,
Télécom-ParisTech
Antti Oulasvirta, Aalto University
Carmel Majidi, Carnegie Mellon University
Jürgen Steimle, Max Planck Institute
for Informatics

3001  Cyclops: Wearable and Single-Piece Full-Body

Gesture Input Devices

  Liwei Chan, National Taiwan University

Chi-Hao Hsieh, Computer Science
Yi-Ling Chen, National Taiwan University
Shuo Yang, Computer Science
Da-Yuan Huang, Rong-Hao Liang, Bing-Yu Chen,
National Taiwan University

3011  Bodyprint: Biometric User Identification on
Mobile Devices Using the Capacitive
Touchscreen to Scan Body Parts

  Christian Holz, Senaka Buthpitiya, Marius Knaust,

Yahoo Labs

3015  NailO: Fingernails as an Input Surface

Hsin-Liu (Cindy) Kao, Artem Dementyev,
Joseph A. Paradiso, Chris Schmandt,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology

3019  Exploring Subtle Foot Plantar-based Gestures

with Sock-placed Pressure Sensors

  Koumei Fukahori, Daisuke Sakamoto, Takeo Igarashi,

The University of Tokyo

Brain & Physiological Data use for HCI
Session Chair: Jacob Robert, Tufts University, USA

3029 Classification Accuracy from the Perspective of

the User: Real-Time Interaction with
Physiological Computing
Stephen H. Fairclough, Alexander J. Karran,
Kiel Gilleade, Liverpool John Moores University

3039 Examining the Reliability of Using fNIRS in

Realistic HCI Settings for Spatial and Verbal
Tasks
Horia A. Maior, Matthew Pike, Sarah Sharples,
Max L. Wilson, University of Nottingham

Software Engineering Tools
Session Chair: Feng Tian, Chinese Academy of Sciences, China

3043 StructJumper: A Tool to Help Blind

Programmers Navigate and Understand the
Structure of Code
Catherine M. Baker, Lauren R. Milne,
Richard E. Ladner, University of Washington

3053 An Interactive System for Data Structure

Development
Jibin Ou, Martin Vechev, Otmar Hilliges, ETH Zurich

3063 Polymorphic Blocks: Formalism-Inspired UI for

Structured Connectors
Sorin Lerner, Stephen R. Foster, William G. Griswold,
University of California, San Diego

HCI at Home
Session Chair: David Geerts, Social Spaces, Belgium

3073 Investigating Genres and Perspectives in HCI

Research on the Home
Audrey Desjardins, Simon Fraser University
Ron Wakkary, Simon Fraser University &
Eindhoven University of Technology
William Odom, Simon Fraser University

3083 Building Change: Constructive Design of Smart

Domestic Environments for Goal Achievement
Ryan Brotman, Arizona State University
Winslow Burleson, New York University
Jodi Forlizzi, Carnegie Mellon University
William Heywood, Jisoo Lee, Arizona State University

3093 uCap: an Internet Data Management Tool for the

Home
Marshini Chetty, University of Maryland, College Park
Hyojoon Kim, Georgia Institute of Technology
Srikanth Sundaresan, University of California, Berkeley
Sam Burnett, Georgia Institute of Technology
Nick Feamster, Princeton University
W. Keith Edwards, Georgia Institute of Technology

3103 Mediating Attention for Second Screen

Companion Content

Timothy Neate, Matt Jones, Swansea
University
Michael Evans, BBC R & D

xxx

Voting & Volunteerism
Session Chair: Andres Monroy-Hernandez, Microsoft Research,
USA

3107  Social Media Effectiveness for Public

Engagement: Example of Small Nonprofits
  Youyang Hou, Cliff Lampe, University of Michigan

3117  Exploring Barriers to the Adoption of Mobile

Technologies for Volunteer Data Collection
Campaigns

  Sunyoung Kim, Harvard University

Jennifer Mankoff, Carnegie Mellon University
Eric Paulos, University of California

3127  “Everyone Is Talking about It!”: A Distributed

Approach to Urban Voting Technology and
Visualisations

Lisa Koeman, University College London
Vaiva Kalnikaitė, Dovetailed
Yvonne Rogers, University College London

3137  Design Challenges in Supporting Distributed

Knowledge: An Examination of Organizing
Elections

  Nina Boulus-Rødje, Pernille Bjorn, IT University

of Copenhagen

Socio-Political Interactions
Session Chair: Liang Gou, Almaden, USA

3177 Debating Poverty Porn on Twitter: Social Media
as a Place for Everyday Socio-Political Talk
Phil Brooker, University of Bath
John Vines, Selina Sutton, Newcastle University
Julie Barnett, University of Bath
Tom Feltwell, Shaun Lawson, University of Lincoln

Understanding Health through Online
Behavior
Session Chair: Mary Czerwinski, Microsoft Research, USA

3187 Recognizing Depression from Twitter Activity

Sho Tsugawa, University of Tsukuba
Yusuke Kikuchi, Fumio Kishino, Kwansei Gakuin
University
Kosuke Nakajima, Yuichi Itoh, Osaka University
Hiroyuki Ohsaki, Kwansei Gakuin University

3197 You Tweet What You Eat: Studying Food

Consumption Through Twitter
Sofiane Abbar, Yelena Mejova, Ingmar Weber,
Qatar Computing Research Institute

3207 Rethinking the Mobile Food Journal: Exploring

Opportunities for Lightweight Photo-Based
Capture
Felicia Cordeiro, Elizabeth Bales, University of
Washington
Erin Cherry, University of Rochester
James Fogarty, University of Washington

3147  The Politics of Measurement and Action

3217 Collective Sensemaking in Online Health

Kathleen H. Pine, University of California,
Irvine
Max Liboiron, Memorial University of
Newfoundland and Labrador

3157  Beyond Participatory Production: Digitally
Supporting Grassroots Documentary
  David Philip Green, Simon J. Bowen, Newcastle

University
Chris Newell, Hull University
Guy Schofield, Tom Bartindale, Clara Crivellaro,
Newcastle University
Alia Sheikh, BBC Research & Development
Peter Wright, Patrick Olivier, Newcastle University

3167  Designing Political Deliberation Environments

to Support Interactions in the Public Sphere

Bryan Semaan, Syracuse University
Heather Faucett, University of California,
Irvine
Scott P. Robertson, Misa Maruyama,
Sara Douglas, University of Hawaii at
Mānoa

Forums
Lena Mamykina, Drashko Nakikj, Noemie Elhadad,
Columbia University

Natural User Interfaces for InfoVis
Session Chair: Bongshin Lee, Microsoft Research, USA

3227 Opportunities and Challenges for Data

Physicalization
Yvonne Jansen, University of Copenhagen
Pierre Dragicevic, Petra Isenberg, Inria
Jason Alexander, Abhijit Karnik, Lancaster University
Johan Kildal, Nokia
Sriram Subramanian, University of Bristol
Kasper Hornbæk, University of Copenhagen

3237 Exploring Interactions with Physically Dynamic

Bar Charts
Faisal Taher, John Hardy, Abhijit Karnik,
Christian Weichel, Lancaster University
Yvonne Jansen, Kasper Hornbæk, University
of Copenhagen
Jason Alexander, Lancaster University

3247 Evaluating the Memorability of Physical

Visualizations
Simon Stusak, Jeannette Schwarz, Andreas Butz,
University of Munich

xxxi

3251  Personality as a Predictor of User Strategy: How

3327 User-Defined Game Input for Smart Glasses in

Locus of Control Affects Search Strategies on
Tree Visualizations

Alvitta Ottley, Tufts University
Huahai Yang, IBM Research
Remco Chang, Tufts University

3255  SketchSliders: Sketching Widgets for Visual

Exploration on Wall Displays

Theophanis Tsandilas, INRIA, Univ Paris-
Sud & CNRS
Anastasia Bezerianos, Univ Paris-Sud,
CNRS & INRIA
Thibaut Jacob, INRIA, Univ Paris-Sud,
Telecom ParisTech & CNRS

UX Methods 4
Session Chair: Benjamin Hanrahan, Xerox Research Center
Europe, France

3265  Two-Level Personas for Nested Design Spaces

  Anke Dittmar, Maximilian Hensch, University of Rostock

3275  The Work of Mad Men That Makes the Methods
of Math Men Work: Practically Occasioned
Segment Design

  Michael F. Clarke, Google, Inc.

3285  Flow of Competence in UX Design Practice

Colin M. Gray, Iowa State University
Austin Toombs, Shad Gross, Indiana
University Bloomington

3295  Usees

  Eric P. S. Baumer, Cornell University

Augmented & Virtual Reality in the Real World
Session Chair: Morten Fjeld, Chalmers University of Technology,
Sweden

3307  Substitutional Reality: Using the Physical

Environment to Design Virtual Reality
Experiences

  Adalberto L. Simeone, University of Portsmouth &

Lancaster University
Eduardo Velloso, Hans Gellersen, Lancaster University

3317  The Semantic Paintbrush: Interactive 3D

Mapping and Recognition in Large Outdoor
Spaces

  Ondrej Miksik, University of Oxford
Vibhav Vineet, Stanford University
Morten Lidegaard, Ram Prasaath, University of Oxford
Matthias Nießner, Stanford University
Stuart Golodetz, Stephen L. Hicks, University of Oxford
Patrick Pérez, Technicolor R&I
Shahram Izadi, Microsoft Research
Philip H. S. Torr, University of Oxford

Public Space
Ying-Chao Tung, Chun-Yen Hsu, National Taiwan
University
Han-Yu Wang, Silvia Chyou, HCI lab (R430)
Jhe-Wei Lin, Pei-Jung Wu, Andries Valstar,
Mike Y. Chen, National Taiwan University

3337 Retargeting Technical Documentation to

Augmented Reality
Peter Mohr, Bernhard Kerbl, Michael Donoser,
Dieter Schmalstieg, Denis Kalkofen, Graz University
of Technology

Gesture Elicitation & Recognition
Session Chair: Niels Henze, University of Stuttgart, Germany

3347 Soft-Constraints to Reduce Legacy and

Performance Bias to Elicit Whole-body Gestures
with Low Arm Fatigue
Jaime Ruiz, Colorado State University
Daniel Vogel, University of Waterloo

3351 Unistroke Gesture Recognition Through Polyline

Approximation and Alignment
Vittorio Fuccella, Gennaro Costagliola, University
of Salerno

3355 Gesture On: Enabling Always-On Touch

Gestures for Fast Mobile Access from the Device
Standby Mode
Hao Lü, Yang Li, Google, Inc.

3365 Optimizing Touchscreen Keyboards for Gesture

Typing
Brian A. Smith, Columbia University & Google, Inc.
Xiaojun Bi, Shumin Zhai, Google, Inc.

3375 Design and Evaluation of a Self-Correcting

Gesture Interface based on Error Potentials
from EEG
Felix Putze, Christoph Amma, Tanja Schultz, Karlsruhe
Institute of Technology (KIT)

Programming Environments
Session Chair: Joonhwan Lee, Seoul National University, Republic
of Korea

3385 Constructing Conceptual Knowledge Artefacts:

Activity Patterns in the Ontology Authoring
Process
Markel Vigo, Caroline Jay, Robert Stevens,
The University of Manchester

3395 Helping Users Bootstrap Ontologies:

An Empirical Investigation
Yuhao Zhang, Tania Tudorache, Matthew Horridge,
Mark A. Musen, Stanford University

3399 A Spreadsheet Model for Handling Streaming

Data
Kerry Shih-Ping Chang, Brad A. Myers, Carnegie Mellon
University

xxxii

3403  TextAlive: Integrated Design Environment for

3483 Supporting the Modern Polyglot -- A Comparison

Kinetic Typography

Jun Kato, Tomoyasu Nakano,
Masataka Goto, National Institute of
Advanced Industrial Science and
Technology

of Multilingual Search Interfaces
Ben Steichen, Luanne Freund, University of British
Columbia

3493 New Interaction Tools for Preserving an Old

Language

3413  Power, Empowerment and Open Source Usability

  Mikko Rajanen, Netta Iivari, University of Oulu

Digital Collections, Practice & Legacy
Session Chair: Will Odom, Simon Fraser University, Canada

3423  Digital Collections and Digital Collecting

Practices

  Rebecca D. Watkins, Cardiff University & University

of Southampton
Abigail Sellen, Siân E. Lindley, Microsoft Research

3433  Medium, Access, and Obsolescence: What Kinds

of Objects are Lasting Objects?

  Jane Gruning, Julia Bullard, Melissa Ocepek,

The University of Texas at Austin

3443  Things That Make Us Reminisce: Everyday

Memory Cues as Opportunities for Interaction
Design

  Doménique van Gennip, Elise van den Hoven, University

of Technology Sydney & Eindhoven University of
Technology
Panos Markopoulos, Eindhoven University of Technology
& University of Technology, Sydney

3453  Curatorial Agents: How Systems Shape Our

Understanding of Personal and Familial Digital
Information

  Rebecca Gulotta, Alex Sciuto, Aisling Kelliher,

Jodi Forlizzi, Carnegie Mellon University

Multilingual Communication
Session Chair: Hao-Chuan Wang, National Tsing Hua University,
Taiwan

3463  Improving Multilingual Collaboration by

Displaying How Non-native Speakers Use
Automated Transcripts and Bilingual Dictionaries
Ge Gao, NTT Communication Science Labs
& Cornell University (USA)
Naomi Yamashita, Ari Hautasaari,
NTT Communication Science Labs
Susan R. Fussell, Cornell University

3473  Effect of Machine Translation in Interlingual

Conversation: Lessons from a Formative Study

  Kotaro Hara, University of Maryland, College Park

Shamsi T. Iqbal, Microsoft Research

Beryl Plimmer, University of Auckland &
National University of Singapore
Liang He, National University of Singapore
& Carnegie Mellon University
Tariq Zaman, Universiti Malaysia Sarawak
Kasun Karunanayaka, National University
of Singapore
Alvin W. Yeo, Garen Jengan, Universiti
Malaysia Sarawak
Rachel Blagojevic, Massey University
Ellen Yi-Luen Do, National University of
Singapore

Empowering Users
Session Chair: Maarten Thissen, The Hague University of Applied
Sciences, The Netherlands

3503 Mixed-Initiative Approaches to Global Editing in

Slideware
Darren Edge, Sumit Gulwani, Natasa Milic-Frayling,
Mohammad Raza, Microsoft Research
Reza Adhitya Saputra, Microsoft Research &
University of Waterloo
Chao Wang, Microsoft Research
Koji Yatani, Microsoft Research & The University
of Tokyo

3513 “For Telling” the Present: Using the Delphi

Method to Understand Personal Information
Management Practices
William Jones, University of Washington
Robert Capra, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Anne Diekema, Utah State University
Jaime Teevan, Microsoft Research
Manuel Pérez-Quiñones, Virginia Tech
Jesse David Dinneen, McGill University
Bradley Hemminger, University of North Carolina

Accessibility for Vision Impaired Users
Session Chair: Xiaojuan Ma, Huawei Technologies, Hong Kong

3523 Privacy Concerns and Behaviors of People with

Visual Impairments
Tousif Ahmed, Roberto Hoyle, Kay Connelly,
David Crandall, Apu Kapadia, Indiana University
Bloomington

3533 Participatory Design of Therapeutic Video Games
for Young People with Neurological Vision
Impairment
Jonathan Waddington, WESC Foundation
Conor Linehan, Kathrin Gerling, Kieran Hicks,
Timothy L. Hodgson, University of Lincoln

xxxiii

3543  ColourID: Improving Colour Identification for

3623 Robots, Pancakes, and Computer Games:

People with Impaired Colour Vision

David R. Flatla, Alan R. Andrade,
Ross D. Teviotdale, University of Dundee
Dylan L. Knowles, University of
Saskatchewan
Craig Stewart, University of Dundee

Interactive & Multi-Surface Maps
Session Chair: Brent Hecht, University of Minnesota, USA

3553  TerraGuide: Design and Evaluation of a Multi-

Surface Environment for Terrain Visibility
Analysis

  Matthew Oskamp, Christophe Bortolaso, Robin Harrap,

T.C. Nicholas Graham, Queen’s University

3563  Lightweight Relief Shearing for Enhanced Terrain

Perception on Interactive Maps

Wesley Willett, INRIA & University of
Calgary
Bernhard Jenny, Oregon State University
Tobias Isenberg, Pierre Dragicevic, INRIA

3573  An Evaluation of Interactive Map Comparison

Techniques

María-Jesús Lobo, Emmanuel Pietriga,
INRIA & INRIA Chile
Caroline Appert, Univ Paris-Sud, CNRS
& INRIA

3583  Ethermap -- Real-time Collaborative Map Editing

  Thore Fechner, Dennis Wilhelm, Christian Kray,

University of Münster

Robot Personalities
Session Chair: Malte Jung, Cornell University, USA

3593  Too Much Humanness for Human-Robot

Interaction: Exposure to Highly Humanlike
Robots Elicits Aversive Responding in
Observers

  Megan Strait, Lara Vujovic, Victoria Floerke,

Matthias Scheutz, Heather Urry, Tufts University

3603  Look Like Me: Matching Robot Personality via

Gaze to Increase Motivation

Sean Andrist, Bilge Mutlu, University
of Wisconsin–Madison
Adriana Tapus, ENSTA-ParisTech

3613  The Social Impact of a Robot Co-Worker in

Industrial Settings

Allison Sauppé, Bilge Mutlu, University
of Wisconsin–Madison

Designing Serious Games for Robot Imitation
Learning
Benjamin Walther-Franks, Jan Smeddinck, Peter Szmidt,
Andrei Haidu, Michael Beetz, Rainer Malaka,
University of Bremen

Mid-Air Gestures and Interaction
Session Chair: Yang Li, Google Research, USA

3633 Accurate, Robust, and Flexible Real-time Hand

Tracking

Toby Sharp, Cem Keskin,
Duncan Robertson, Jonathan Taylor,
Jamie Shotton, David Kim,
Christoph Rhemann, Ido Leichter,
Alon Vinnikov, Yichen Wei,
Daniel Freedman, Pushmeet Kohli,
Eyal Krupka, Andrew Fitzgibbon,
Shahram Izadi, Microsoft Research

3643 Investigating the Dexterity of Multi-Finger Input

for Mid-Air Text Entry
Srinath Sridhar, Max Planck Institute for Informatics
Anna Maria Feit, Aalto University
Christian Theobalt, Max Planck Institute for Informatics
Antti Oulasvirta, Aalto University

3653 Myopoint: Pointing and Clicking Using Forearm
Mounted Electromyography and Inertial Motion
Sensors
Faizan Haque, Mathieu Nancel, Daniel Vogel,
University of Waterloo

3657 Joint Estimation of 3D Hand Position and

Gestures from Monocular Video for Mobile
Interaction
Jie Song, Fabrizio Pece, Gábor Sörös, ETH Zurich
Marion Koelle, ETH Zurich & University of Passau
Otmar Hilliges, ETH Zurich

3661 zSense: Enabling Shallow Depth Gesture

Recognition for Greater Input Expressivity on
Smart Wearables
Anusha Withana, Roshan Peiris, Nipuna Samarasekara,
Suranga Nanayakkara, Singapore University of
Technology and Design

MOOCS & e-Learning
Session Chair: Juho Kim, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
USA

3671 Providing Adaptive Support in an Interactive

Simulation for Learning: An Experimental
Evaluation
Samad Kardan, Cristina Conati, University of British
Columbia

xxxiv

3681  Interactive Cloud Experimentation for Biology:

An Online Education Case Study

Zahid Hossain, Xiaofan Jin,
Engin W. Bumbacher, Alice M. Chung,
Stephen Koo, Jordan D. Shapiro,
Cynthia Y. Truong, Sean Choi,
Nathan D. Orloff, Paulo Blikstein,
Ingmar H. Riedel-Kruse, Stanford
University

3691  Mining Memories: Designing a Platform to
Support Social Media Based Writing

  John Sadauskas, Arizona State University

Daragh Byrne, Carnegie Mellon University
Robert K. Atkinson, Arizona State University

Bridging Communities
Session Chair: Edward Cutrell, Microsoft Research India, India

3749 Computer-Enabled Project Spaces: Connecting
with Palestinian Refugees across Camp
Boundaries
George Yerousis, Birzeit University
Konstantin Aal, Thomas von Rekowski,
David W. Randall, Markus Rohde, Volker Wulf,
University of Siegen

3759 Transnationalism, Indigenous Knowledge and

Technology: Insights from the Kenyan Diaspora
Kagonya Awori, Frank Vetere, Wally Smith,
The University of Melbourne

3701  Wait-Learning: Leveraging Wait Time for Second

3769 Collective Intelligence in Computer-Mediated

Language Education

  Carrie J. Cai, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Philip J. Guo, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
& University of Rochester
James R. Glass, Robert C. Miller, Massachusetts Institute
of Technology

Understanding Gamers
Session Chair: Toni-Jan Keith Monserrat, National University
of Singapore, Singapore

3711  Masters of Control: Behavioral Patterns of
Simultaneous Unit Group Manipulation in
StarCraft 2

  Eddie Q. Yan, University of California, Los Angeles

Jeff Huang, Brown University
Gifford K. Cheung, University of Washington

3721  Cooperative Game Play with Avatars and Agents:

Differences in Brain Activity and the Experience
of Play

  Daniel Johnson, Peta Wyeth, Madison Clark,

Christopher Watling, Queensland University of
Technology

3731  Examining Game World Topology

Personalization

  Sauvik Das, Carnegie Mellon University

Alexander Zook, Mark O. Riedl, Georgia Institute of
Technology

3735  The Use of Games as Extrinisic Motivation in

Education

  Chris Preist, University of Bristol
Robert Jones, Games Faction Ltd

3739  Exploring Cyberbullying and Other Toxic

Behavior in Team Competition Online Games
  Haewoon Kwak, Qatar Computing Research Institute

Jeremy Blackburn, Telefonica Research
Seungyeop Han, University of Washington

Collaboration Emerges in Different Contexts and
Cultures
David Engel, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Anita Williams Woolley, Carnegie Mellon University
Ishani Aggarwal, Tilburg University
Christopher F. Chabris, Union College
Masamichi Takahashi, Keiichi Nemoto, Fuji Xerox
Co., Ltd.
Carolin Kaiser, University of Erlangen-Nuremberg
Young Ji Kim, Thomas W. Malone, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology

3779 Google+ Communities as Plazas and Topic

Boards
Michael J. Brzozowski, Google, Inc.
Phil Adams, Cornell University
Ed H. Chi, Google, Inc.

Gender & Technology
Session Chair: Antonella De Angeli, University of Trento, Italy

3789 Gender and Tenure Diversity in GitHub Teams

Bogdan Vasilescu, University of California, Davis
& Eindhoven University of Technology
Daryl Posnett, Baishakhi Ray, University of California,
Davis
Mark G.J. van den Brand, Eindhoven University of
Technology
Alexander Serebrenik, University of Eindhoven
Premkumar Devanbu, Vladimir Filkov, University of
California, Davis

3799 Offline Strangers, Online Friends: Bridging

Classroom Gender Segregation with WhatsApp
Preeti Mudliar, Nimmi Rangaswamy, Xerox Research
Centre, India

3809 Online Inspiration and Exploration for Identity

Reinvention
Oliver L. Haimson, University of California, Irvine
Anne E. Bowser, University of Maryland, College Park
Edward F. Melcer, New York University
Elizabeth F. Churchill, eBay Research Lab, eBay Inc.

xxxv

3819  Unequal Representation and Gender Stereotypes

3879 Ergonomic Interaction for Touch Floors

in Image Search Results for Occupations

Matthew Kay, University of Washington
Cynthia Matuszek, University of Maryland,
Baltimore County
Sean A. Munson, University of Washington

Coping & Wellbeing Through HCI
Session Chair: Jina Huh, Michigan State University, USA

3829  Finding the Adaptive Sweet Spot: Balancing
Compliance and Achievement in Automated
Stress Reduction

  Artie Konrad, University of California, Santa Cruz

& Palo Alto Research Center
Victoria Bellotti, Palo Alto Research Center & University
of California, Santa Cruz
Nicole Crenshaw, University of California, Irvine
& Palo Alto Research Center
Simon Tucker, Les Nelson, Honglu Du, Peter Pirolli,
Palo Alto Research Center
Steve Whittaker, University of California, Santa Cruz

3839  SoberDiary: A Phone-based Support System for

Assisting Recovery from Alcohol Dependence

Chuang-wen You, Kuo-Cheng Wang,
National Taiwan University
Ming-Chyi Huang, Taipei City Hospital
Songde Branch
Yen-Chang Chen, Cheng-Lin Lin,
Po-Shiun Ho, National Taiwan University
Hao-Chuan Wang, National Tsing Hua
University
Polly Huang, Hao-Hua Chu, National
Taiwan University

Dominik Schmidt, Johannes Frohnhofen, Sven Knebel,
Florian Meinel, Mariya Perchyk, Julian Risch,
Jonathan Striebel, Julia Wachtel, Patrick Baudisch,
Hasso Plattner Institute

3889 Display Blindness? Looking Again at the

Visibility of Situated Displays using Eye Tracking
Nicholas S. Dalton, The Open University
Emily Collins, Paul Marshall, University College London

3899 Detecting User Intention at Public Displays from

Foot Positions
Bernd Huber, Technical University Munich
Joong Ho Lee, Ji-Hyung Park, Korea Institute of Science
and Technology

Multi-Device Interaction
Session Chair: Michael Nebeling, ETH Zurich, Switzerland

3903 A Diary Study on Combining Multiple Information

Devices in Everyday Activities and Tasks
Tero Jokela, Nokia Technologies
Jarno Ojala, Thomas Olsson, Tampere University
of Technology

3913 Spatially-aware or Spatially-agnostic? Elicitation

and Evaluation of User-Defined Cross-Device
Interactions
Roman Rädle, University of Konstanz
Hans-Christian Jetter, University College London
Mario Schreiner, University of Konstanz
Zhihao Lu, University College London
Harald Reiterer, University of Konstanz
Yvonne Rogers, University College London

3849  Solutionism, the Game: Design Fictions for

3923 Weave: Scripting Cross-Device Wearable

Positive Aging

Mark Blythe, Jamie Steane, Northumbria
University
Jenny Roe, University of York
Caroline Oliver, University of Oxford

3859  Design Considerations for Patient Portal

Adoption by Low-Income, Older Adults

  Celine Latulipe, University of North Carolina at Charlotte

Amy Gatto, Ha T. Nguyen, David P. Miller,
Sara A. Quandt, Alain G. Bertoni, Wake Forest School
of Medicine
Alden Smith, Greene County Healthcare
Thomas A. Arcury, Wake Forest School of Medicine

Interacting with Floors & Situated Displays
Session Chair: Diego Martinez Plasencia, University of Bristol, UK

3869  BaseLase: An Interactive Focus + Context Laser

Floor

Jörg Müller, Aarhus University & TU Berlin
Dieter Eberle, Constantin Schmidt,
TU Berlin

Interaction
Pei-Yu (Peggy) Chi, University of California, Berkeley
Yang Li, Google Research

3933 MultiFi: Multi-Fidelity Interaction with Displays

on and Around the Body
Jens Grubert, Matthias Heinisch, Graz University
of Technology
Aaron Quigley, The University of St Andrews
Dieter Schmalstieg, Graz University of Technology

Speech & Auditory Interfaces
Session Chair: Cosmin Munteanu, University of Toronto
Mississauga, Canada

3943 Form Follows Sound: Designing Interactions

from Sonic Memories
Baptiste Caramiaux, Alessandro Altavilla, Goldsmiths,
University of London
Scott G. Pobiner, Parsons The New School for Design
Atau Tanaka, Goldsmiths, University of London

3953 Repurposing Conversation: Experiments with the

Continuous Speech Stream
Donald McMillan, Antoine Loriette, Barry Brown,
Mobile Life @ Stockholm University

xxxvi

3963  The CADENCE Corpus: A New Resource for

4029 Resilience Mitigates the Negative Effects of

Inclusive Voice Interface Design
  Maria K. Wolters, Jonathan Kilgour,

Sarah E. MacPherson, Myroslava Dzikovska,
Johanna D. Moore, University of Edinburgh

3967  Empirical Evidence for a Diminished Sense of

Agency in Speech Interfaces

  Hannah Limerick, University of Bristol

James W. Moore, Goldsmiths, University of London
David Coyle, University of Bristol

3971  To Beep or Not to Beep? Comparing Abstract

versus Language-Based Multimodal Driver
Displays

  Ioannis Politis, Stephen Brewster, Frank Pollick,

University of Glasgow

Email & Social Media at Work
Session Chair: Pernille Bjorn, IT University of Copenhagen,
Denmark

3981  Lost in Email: Pulling Users Down a Path of

Interaction

  Benjamin V. Hanrahan, Xerox Research Center Europe

Manuel A. Pérez-Quiñones, Virginia Tech

3985  Balancing Boundaries: Using Multiple Devices

to Manage Work-Life Balance

  Rowanne Fleck, University College London &

University of Birmingham
Anna L. Cox, University College London
Rosalyn A. V. Robison, Anglia Ruskin University

3989  Working 9-5? Professional Differences in Email

and Boundary Management Practices
  Marta E. Cecchinato, Anna L. Cox, Jon Bird,

City University, London

3999  Inferring Employee Engagement from Social

Media

N. Sadat Shami, IBM
Michael Muller, IBM T.J. Watson Research
Aditya Pal, IBM Almaden Research Center
Mikhil Masli, IBM
Werner Geyer, IBM T.J. Watson Research

4009  Mailing Lists: Why Are They Still Here, What’s
Wrong with Them, and How Can We Fix Them?
  Amy X. Zhang, Massachusetts Institute of Technology

Mark S. Ackerman, University of Michigan
David R. Karger, Massachusetts Institute of Technology

Understanding & Protecting Kids Tech Use
Session Chair: Svetlana Yarosh, University of Minnesota, USA

4019  Regulating Access to Adult Content (with Privacy

Preservation)

  Karen Renaud, Joseph Maguire, University of Glasgow

Adolescent Internet Addiction and Online Risk
Exposure

Pamela Wisniewski, Haiyan Jia,
Na Wang, Saijing Zheng, Heng Xu,
Mary Beth Rosson, John M. Carroll,
The Pennsylvania State University

4039 Generation Like: Comparative Characteristics in

Instagram
Jin Yea Jang, Kyungsik Han, Patrick C. Shih,
Dongwon Lee, The Pennsylvania State University

4043 Investigating High School Students’ Perceptions
of Digital Badges in Afterschool Learning
Katie Davis, University of Washington
Eve Klein, Pacific Science Center

Social Media & Citizen Science
Session Chair: Elena Glassman, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, USA

4047 Piggyback Prototyping: Using Existing, Large-
Scale Social Computing Systems to Prototype
New Ones

Catherine Grevet, Eric Gilbert, Georgia
Institute of Technology

4057 Situated Social Media Use: A Methodological

Approach to Locating Social Media Practices and
Trajectories
Thomas Hillman, Alexandra Weilenmann, University of
Gothenburg

4061 Break It Down: A Comparison of Macro- and

Microtasks

Justin Cheng, Stanford University
Jaime Teevan, Shamsi T. Iqbal, Microsoft
Research
Michael S. Bernstein, Stanford University

4065 DIYbio Things: Open Source Biology Tools as

Platforms for Hybrid Knowledge Production and
Scientific Participation
Stacey Kuznetsov, Carrie Doonan, Nathan Wilson,
Swarna Mohan, Scott E. Hudson, Carnegie Mellon
University
Eric Paulos, University of California, Berkeley

4069 Designing for Citizen Data Analysis: A Cross-

Sectional Case Study of a Multi-Domain Citizen
Science Platform

Ramine Tinati, Max Van Kleek,
Elena Simperl, Markus Luczak-Rösch,
University of Southampton
Robert Simpson, University of Oxford
Nigel Shadbolt, University of Southampton

xxxvii

4079  Is This How We (All) Do It? Butler Lies and
Ambiguity Through a Broader Lens

Megan French, Cornell University
Madeline E. Smith, Jeremy Birnholtz,
Northwestern University
Jeff T. Hancock, Cornell University

Disasters & Humanitarian Events
Session Chair: Tawanna Dillahunt, University of Michigan, USA

4083  CrowdMonitor: Mobile Crowd Sensing for

Assessing Physical and Digital Activities of
Citizens during Emergencies

  Thomas Ludwig, Christian Reuter, Tim Siebigteroth,

Volkmar Pipek, University of Siegen

4093  XHELP: Design of a Cross-Platform Social-Media

Application to Support Volunteer Moderators in
Disasters

  Christian Reuter, Thomas Ludwig, Marc-André Kaufhold,

Volkmar Pipek, University of Siegen

4103  Building a Birds Eye View: Collaborative Work in

Disaster Response

  Joel E. Fischer, Stuart Reeves, Tom Rodden,

The University of Nottingham
Steve Reece, University of Oxford
Sarvapali D. Ramchurn, University of Southampton
David Jones, Rescue Global

4113  Success & Scale in a Data-Producing

Organization: The Socio-Technical Evolution of
OpenStreetMap in Response to Humanitarian
Events

  Leysia Palen, Robert Soden, T. Jennings Anderson,
Mario Barrenechea, University of Colorado Boulder

Home Physiotherapy & Rehabilitation
Session Chair: Yi-Ping Hung, National Taiwan University, Taiwan

4123  Physio@Home: Exploring Visual Guidance and
Feedback Techniques for Physiotherapy
Exercises

  Richard Tang, Xing-Dong Yang, University of Calgary
Scott Bateman, University of Prince Edward Island
Joaquim Jorge, IST/INESC-ID
Anthony Tang, University of Calgary

4147 Resilience Ex Machina: Learning a Complex

Medical Device for Haemodialysis Self-Treatment

Paul Noble, University College London

4151 Understanding Design Tradeoffs for Health
Technologies: A Mixed-Methods Approach
Katie O’Leary, Jordan Eschler, Logan Kendall,
Lisa M. Vizer, University of Washington
James D. Ralston, Group Health Research Institute
Wanda Pratt, University of Washington

Interaction Techniques for Tables & Walls
Session Chair: Tom Bartindale, Newcastle University, UK

4161 G-raff: An Elevating Tangible Block for Spatial

Tabletop Interaction
Chang-Min Kim, Tek-Jin Nam, Korea Advanced Institute
of Science and Technology

4165 Modeling Distant Pointing for Compensating

Systematic Displacements
Sven Mayer, Katrin Wolf, Stefan Schneegass,
Niels Henze, University of Stuttgart

4169 Is Moving Improving? Some Effects of
Locomotion in Wall-Display Interaction
Mikkel R. Jakobsen, Kasper Hornbæk, University of
Copenhagen

4179 Gaze+RST: Integrating Gaze and Multitouch for

Remote Rotate-Scale-Translate Tasks
Jayson Turner, Jason Alexander, Lancaster University
Andreas Bulling, Max Planck Institute for Informatics
Hans Gellersen, Lancaster University

4189 Designing for Exploratory Search on Touch

Devices
Khalil Klouche, University of Helsinki & Aalto University
Tuukka Ruotsalo, Aalto University
Diogo Cabral, Salvatore Andolina, University of Helsinki
Andrea Bellucci, Universidad Carlos III de Madrid
Giulio Jacucci, University of Helsinki & Aalto University

Interacting with GUIs
Session Chair: David Flatla, University of Dundee, UK

4133  Lessons Learnt from Deploying an End-User

4199 Clutching Is Not (Necessarily) the Enemy

Development Platform for Physical Rehabilitation

  Daniel Tetteroo, Paul Vreugdenhil, Ivor Grisel,

Eindhoven University of Technology
Marc Michielsen, Jesse Hospital
Els Kuppens, MS-Reva Overpelt
Diana Vanmulken, Adelante Centre of Expertise in
Rehabilitation and Audiology
Panos Markopoulos, Eindhoven University of Technology

4143  Exergames for Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation:

A Medium-term Situated Study of Motivational
Aspects and Impact on Functional Reach

  Jan David Smeddinck, Marc Herrlich, Rainer Malaka,

University of Bremen

Mathieu Nancel, Daniel Vogel, Edward Lank,
University of Waterloo

4203 Visual Grouping in Menu Interfaces

Duncan P. Brumby, Susan Zhuang, University College
London

4207 Color Portraits: From Color Picking to Interacting

with Color

Ghita Jalal, Nolwenn Maudet,
Wendy E. Mackay, Inria & Université
Paris-Sud

xxxviii

4217  The Emergence of Interactive Behaviour:
A Model of Rational Menu Search

  Xiuli Chen, University of Birmingham

Gilles Bailly, CNRS LTCI, Télécom-ParisTech
Duncan P. Brumby, University College London
Antti Oulasvirta, Aalto University
Andrew Howes, University of Birmingham

4227  Selective Undo Support for Painting Applications

  Brad A. Myers, Ashley Lai, Tam Minh Le, YoungSeok
Yoon, Andrew Faulring, Carnegie Mellon University
Joel Brandt, Adobe Research

4237  Author Index

xil

CHI 2015 Organization

General Conference Chairs
Jinwoo Kim, Yonsei University, Korea
Bo Begole, Huawei, USA

Technical Program

Technical Program Chairs
Woontack Woo, KAIST, Korea
Kori Inkpen, Microsoft Research, USA

Papers
Andy Cockburn, University of Canterbury,
   New Zealand
Joanna McGrenere, University of  British Columbia,
   Canada
Jun Rekimoto, University of  Toyko, Japan

Case Studies
Danielle Cooley, DGCooley Consulting, USA
Joonhwan Lee, Seoul National University, Korea

Courses
Regina Bernhaupt, ICS-IRIT, France
Matt Jones, Swansea University, UK

Interactivity
Julie Rico Williamson, University of Glasgow, UK
Juhyun Eune, Seoul National University, Korea

Video Showcase
Jinwook Seo, Seoul National University, Korea
Rodrigo de Oliveira, Google, USA

Works in Progress
Shamsi Iqbal, Microsoft Research, USA
Shaun Lawson, University of Lincoln, UK
Shendong Zhao, National University of Singapore,
   Singapore

Student Research Competition
Seungyon “Claire” Lee, Google, USA
Geehyuk Lee, KAIST, Korea

Student Design Competition
Youn-Kyung Lim, KAIST, Korea
Anirudha Joshi, ITT Bombay, India

Student Game Competition
Floyd Muller, RMIT University, Australia
Alessandro Canossa, Northeastern University, USA
Soojin Jun, Yonsei University, Korea

alt.chi
Silvia Lindtner, University of California, Irvine, USA
Morgan Ames, Intel, USA
Henry Duh, University of Tasmania, Australia

TOCHI Papers
Jeffrey Nichols, IBM Research, USA

SIGs
Enrico Rukzio, Ulm University, Germany
Simone Barbosa, PUC-Rio, Brazil

Best of CHI Awards
Mark Billinghurst, University of Canterbury,
   New Zealand

Doctoral Consortium
Si-Jung “Jun” Kim, University of Central Florida,
   USA
Jaime Teevan, Microsoft Research, USA
Sue Fussell, Cornell University, USA

Workshops
Juergen Steimle, Max Planck Institute for Informatics,
   Germany
Bongshin Lee, Microsoft Research, USA

Panels
Khai Truong, University of North Carolina, Charlotte,
   USA
Elaine M. Huang, University of Zurich, Switzerland

Conference Theme Chair
Kyle Hyunsuk Kim, Hongik University, Korea

Industry Liaison
Garett Dworman, TecEd, USA

OrganizationCHI 2015, Crossings, Seoul, Koreaxl

Operations

Chair’s Assistant
Yoojin Lee, Yonsei University, Korea

Chair’s Assistant
Nik Martelaro, Stanford University, USA

Student Volunteer
Jon Haber, University of Calgary, Canada
Siroberto Scerbo, Virginia Tech, USA
Jieun Wee, Seoul National University, Korea

Technology Liaisons
Sara Drenner, University of Minnesota-Twin Cities,
   USA
Scooter Morris, University of California,
   San Francisco, USA

Webmaster
Juho Kim, MIT, USA
TJ Monserrat, National University of Singapore,
    Singapore

Social Media
Max Wilson, Nottingham University, UK
Kwangsu Cho, Sungkyunkwan University, Korea

Data Managerment
Max Van Kleek, University of Southampton, UK
BoYu Gao, Konkuk University, Korea

Proceedings
Deana Brown, Georgia Tech, USA
Jaejeung Kim, KAIST, Korea

Infrastructure Accessibility Chair
Jongbae Kim, Yonsei University, Korea

Digital Accessibility Chair
Jeff Bigham, University of Rochester, USA

Scheduling
Christophe Hurter, ENAC, France
Juho Kim, MIT, USA

Mobile Apps
Stephen Oney, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Eiji Hayashi, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Jason Wiese, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
Célia Martinie, Université Paul Sabatier, France

Video Previews
Fanny Chevalier, INRIA, France
Stéphane Huo, Université Paris-Sud, France

Posters
Hyun Joo Song, Seoul National University, Korea

Translations
Sue Fussell, Cornell University, USA
Naomi Yamashita, NTT, Japan

Local Hospitality
Junho Choi, Yonsei University, Korea

Sponsors, Exhibits & Recruitment
Carol Klyver, Foundations of Excellence, USA

Registration
Yvonne Lopez, Executive Events, Inc. USA
Brooke Daley, Executive Events, Inc. USA

PCS Liaisons
Max van Kleek, University of Southampton, UK
Carol Klyver, Foundations of Excellence, USA
Scooter Morris, University of California,
   San Francisco, USA

OrganizationCHI 2015, Crossings, Seoul, Koreaxli
